Title: SoK: A Large-Scale Empirical Study of Emulation-Based Dynamic Analysis Research for ARM Cortex-M Firmware (Extended Version)

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2609.38872v1

Published Time: Thu, 01 Oct 2026 00:57:26 GMT

Number of Pages: 21

Markdown Content:
# SoK: A Large-Scale Empirical Study of Emulation-Based Dynamic Analysis Research for ARM Cortex-M Firmware 

Hongyuan Li ∗, Ke Wang ∗, Wei Zhou ∗✉, Le Guan †,

> ∗

School of Cyber Science and Engineering, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, China 

> ∗

Hubei Key Laboratory of Distributed System Security 

> †

University of Georgia E-mails: {hornos2, ke wang tt, weizhou sec }@hust.edu.cn, leguan@uga.edu 

Abstract —As microcontroller (MCU)-based devices become increasingly pervasive in daily life, the need for efficient and scalable security analysis of MCU firmware has become critical. While recent firmware re-hosting efforts have made automated vulnerability assessment feasible, two major gaps remain unad-dressed. First, existing tools are commonly evaluated on limited and heavily overlapping datasets, which undermines the gen-eralizability of reported results. Second, prior research typically advances the state of the art along orthogonal dimensions, such as emulation, fuzzing, or bug diagnosis, without providing a holistic understanding of how these components interact and complement one another in dynamic analysis workflows. Building on recently released large-scale MCU firmware datasets from OTACap and FirmLine, our work presents an empirical study of 24 emulation-based firmware analysis tools published in top academic conferences and journals. We system-atically position these tools within a unified automated analysis pipeline consisting of emulation configuration reconnaissance, emulation, bug finding, and diagnosis. At each stage, we evaluate whether a tool’s output provides sufficient information to enable the subsequent stage, using a deduplicated and validated subset of 4,571 ARM Cortex-M based firmware samples. Our results show that only 1,580 samples (34.5%) can be successfully fuzzed, even when a sample is considered successful if at least one existing tool can fuzz it. Among these, fuzzing results are generally poor, with an average code coverage of only 10% and a large number of false crashes/hangs. Through a systematic analysis of failed fuzzing attempts and false-positive cases, we disclose fundamental challenges and methodological limitations in current approaches. These findings highlight critical gaps in the state of the art and provide actionable insights to inform and guide future research in emulation-based firmware analysis. 

I. I NTRODUCTION 

The number of connected IoT devices continues to grow rapidly [1]. Microcontroller Units (MCUs) are widely adopted in IoT devices, including those deployed in security-sensitive 

Wei Zhou is the corresponding author. 

domains such as industrial control and healthcare systems, owing to their low cost, low power consumption, and rich peripheral interfaces [2]. However, despite their cost efficiency, MCUs lack many of the hardware-level security mechanisms found in application processors, such as Intel SGX and even page-based memory protection. Moreover, firmware is often implemented in memory-unsafe languages such as C/C++, rendering it vulnerable to memory-related bugs. As MCU-based devices continue to face active attacks, firmware security testing has become increasingly critical. However, testing on real hardware is often inefficient or even infeasible due to limited computational resources, which sig-nificantly slow down the testing process. Furthermore, many MCU devices are difficult or impossible to physically access once deployed in environments such as industrial, aerospace, or healthcare systems. As an alternative, firmware rehosting —executing firmware on a host with a different architecture and more powerful computing resources—has emerged as a practical and popular testing strategy. Recent years have witnessed a surge of research focused on developing more robust MCU firmware emulation environments [3], [4], [5], [6], [7], [8], [9], [10], [11], [12], which serve as the founda-tion for dynamic analysis techniques, particularly automated vulnerability assessments such as fuzzing [13], [14], [15]. More recently, researchers have also proposed dedicated bug diagnosis frameworks tailored for rehosting-based firmware fuzzing [16]. This paper presents a Systematization of Knowledge (SoK) in the field of emulation-based techniques for MCU firmware analysis, with a focus on the ARM Cortex-M architecture. Such a systematization is both timely and necessary for several reasons. 

First , the most relevant prior SoKs and surveys [17], [18] were published over five years ago, when MCU-firmware rehosting was still at an early stage. Since then, more than a dozen studies have advanced the state of the art across firmware emulation, fuzzing, and downstream analysis. An updated SoK is therefore needed to assess how much progress has been made, whether previously identified challenges re-main unresolved or have been mitigated, and what new chal-

Network and Distributed System Security (NDSS) Symposium 2027 22–26 March 2027, Seoul, Republic of Korea ISBN 978-1-970672-09-1 https://dx.doi.org/10.14722/ndss.2027.[23 |24]xxxx www.ndss-symposium.org arXiv:2609.38872v1 [cs.CR] 30 Sep 2026 Fig. 1: Monolithic firmware development and emulation-based dynamic analysis pipeline. lenges have emerged. Second , existing surveys only cover limited topics in isolation, such as emulation [18], [19] and fuzzing [20], [21], [22]. However, a full end-to-end firmware analysis pipeline involves at least four interdependent stages, including firmware information recovery, emulation, fuzzing, and root-cause analysis. By investigating them holistically within a unified framework, we can reveal cross-stage de-pendencies and failure propagation that remain hidden when studied in isolation. Third , prior evaluations have been con-strained by the lack of a large-scale, real-world MCU-firmware dataset. Existing techniques are commonly evaluated on small and overlapping benchmarks, including SDK unit tests [3], [5], open-source demos for specific development boards [4], [9], and handcrafted examples [23], [24], making it difficult to assess their generalizability and practical applicability. In particular, real-world firmware can be more complex, het-erogeneous and may lack the explicit specifications assumed by existing methods. Prior SoKs [17], [18] therefore provide only qualitative summaries of high-level technical challenges, existing mitigation strategies, and coarse-grained tradeoffs. Without really evaluating them on a common, large-scale real-world benchmark, they cannot quantitatively compare how much one approach improves emulation applicability or vulnerability-discovery capability over another, nor can they explain the underlying reasons for their failure cases with concrete evidence. Recently, two large-scale MCU firmware datasets, OTA-Cap [25] and FirmLine [26], have been introduced, collecting thousands of real-world MCU firmware samples from IoT devices’ companion mobile applications and other public sources. These datasets have thus far been leveraged for static analysis. We found them to be a timely resource to enable scalable, data-driven studies of dynamic analysis tools at unprecedented scale and diversity. Building on these re-sources, our SoK conducts, to our knowledge, the first holistic empirical systematization of emulation-based MCU-firmware analysis. We position 24 state-of-the-art tools within a unified four-stage pipeline and evaluate the applicable tools on 4,571 unique ARM Cortex-M firmware samples selected from the two datasets. We focus on the ARM Cortex-M architecture due to its prevalence in real IoT products (thus the mentioned datasets) and first-class support in existing emulation-based tools. Leveraging these datasets, our SoK highlights several evidence-based findings. Through cross-stage validation and representative case studies, we quantify the practical capabili-ties of current techniques, expose recurring failure mechanisms and interoperability gaps, and explain why existing methods struggle to scale to real-world firmware. In doing so, our SoK confirms, refines, and deepens prior observations by showing how much progress has been made, where and why current techniques still fail, and how future research can address these limitations with evidence-based guidance. 

Contributions. This SoK advances the field of emulation-based firmware analysis techniques by:  

> •

Systematizing the knowledge. We organize prior works within a unified analysis pipeline consisting of: (1) emu-lation configuration reconnaissance, (2) emulation, (3) se-curity testing—particularly fuzzing, and (4) bug diagnosis. This provides a unified perspective that contextualizes the relationships and interdependencies among existing tech-niques.  

> •

Revealing the gaps. We conduct the first large-scale evalu-ation of SOTA MCU firmware re-hosting approaches using real-world datasets from OTACap [25] and FirmLine [26], covering 4,571 ARM Cortex-M samples. Our analysis re-veals that current tools achieve limited emulation success and coverage, generate numerous false crashes, and often misattribute root causes, underscoring the gap between academic prototypes and practical robustness.  

> •

Characterizing pitfalls and technical barriers. We iden-tify and analyze key challenges in large-scale evaluations at each workflow stage. These include difficulties in in-ferring emulation configurations for black-box firmware, incomplete ISA instruction and memory mapping support, inaccurate peripheral modeling, and various performance, implementation, and compatibility issues. Our insights are supported by real-world firmware examples and detailed false-crash artifacts.  

> •

Outlining future research directions. We propose action-able avenues for advancing firmware re-hosting and dynamic analysis, including integrating hybrid analysis approaches, enhancing emulation fidelity, and developing more effective and scalable fuzzing and diagnostic strategies. II. B ACKGROUND 

A. MCU-Based Devices and Monolithic Firmware 

MCUs are widely used in deeply embedded systems. An MCU integrates a central processing unit (CPU), memory, and various input/output peripherals within a single chip, in contrast to microprocessors used in personal computers or other general-purpose applications, which typically consist of multiple discrete components. MCUs employ diverse CPU architectures, including ARM, MIPS, and RISC-V, with ARM being the most prevalent—powering over 60% of resource-constrained IoT devices [2]. A key characteristic that distin-2guishes MCUs is their peripheral subsystem, which exhibits substantial variation across different chip models and vendors. The firmware executed on MCU-based embedded devices is typically monolithic, encompassing application logic, device drivers, libraries, and, in some cases, a real-time operating kernel (RTOS). MCU firmware is generally tailored to specific tasks and often operates in an infinite loop, continuously receiving input from the external environment through pe-ripherals, processing the data, and responding via actuators. Typically, the firmware interacts with peripherals through three primary mechanisms: memory-mapped I/O (MMIO) registers, interrupts, and direct memory access (DMA). 

B. Firmware Development and Deployment 

Firmware is typically cross-compiled on a general-purpose computer to the target instruction set of the MCU. The output of cross-compilation generally follows standard executable formats (e.g., ELF or AXF), with additional sections that may contain vendor-specific signatures or metadata. Before deployment on real products, the ELF file is stripped of metadata, relocation information, and symbols, resulting in a raw binary blob ( .bin ) or an ASCII-encoded image ( .hex )as demonstrated in Figure 1. In some cases, these files are fur-ther compressed or encrypted before being programmed into the MCU’s non-volatile memory. This build and deployment pipeline is not standardized, allowing substantial flexibility for manufacturers to define their own proprietary formats. Moreover, a firmware image may be partitioned into multiple components, such as a bootloader, an application image, and a data segment, which are typically flashed into separate memory regions. Many IoT devices also support Over-the-Air (OTA) firmware updates, enabling post-deployment mainte-nance, bug fixes, and feature enhancements. Together, these factors make firmware emulation and analysis challenging. III. S YSTEMATIZATION 

Firmware analysis introduces unique challenges not encoun-tered in general-purpose software analysis. Existing studies of-ten tackle specific issues within the broader firmware analysis pipeline. In this section, we first propose a unified firmware analysis pipeline that incorporates the essential stages involved in emulation-based firmware analysis. We then describe the literature selection criteria in this SoK. Finally, we systematize existing research by putting each work in the context of the proposed analysis pipeline. 

A. Emulation-Based Firmware Analysis Pipeline 

As illustrated in Figure 1, assuming a firmware image is available, four main stages are involved in emulation-based firmware analysis. 

Stage 1: Emulation Configuration Reconnaissance. As discussed in §II-B, real-world firmware often lacks symbols and memory layout information. Moreover, firmware is tightly coupled with its hardware platform. To execute such firmware within an emulator, it is essential to understand the underlying hardware characteristics, including the instruction set archi-tecture (ISA), the memory layout (at least the base address), and the entry point. We refer to this information collection process as the emulation configuration , which is fundamental to correctly initializing a working emulation environment. 

Stage 2: Emulation. With the emulation configuration estab-lished, the next stage aims to achieve full-system emulation, enabling firmware to execute in a completely re-hosted envi-ronment on a general-purpose CPU without relying on phys-ical hardware. This stage primarily involves ISA translation and peripheral interaction emulation. The latter imposes a huge challenge and is a main focus of existing works. 

Stage 3: Security Testing. Once the firmware can execute reliably within the emulator, dynamic security analysis tools— particularly fuzzers—can be integrated to uncover vulnerabil-ities. In this stage, (1) fuzzing inputs are supplied when the firmware reads from peripheral registers or DMA buffers, (2) code coverage is monitored through dynamic instrumentation, and (3) abnormal or crash behaviors are detected by observing invalid memory accesses and other runtime faults. 

Stage 4: Diagnosis. After a crash is detected, bug diagnosis becomes a necessary step toward resolving the issue. This stage involves identifying the root cause, confirming the ex-ploitability and the impact, and generating proof-of-concept evidence for validation. 

B. Literature Scope and Selection Criteria 

We initiated our exploration of emulation-based firmware analysis research by examining publications from four promi-nent security conferences: IEEE S&P, USENIX Security, ACM CCS, and NDSS, spanning the past 15 years (2010–2025). We focused on papers containing the keywords MCU , Mono-lithic , firmware , re-hosting and emulation for at least two occurrences. Additionally, we included cited works from other reputable security and software engineering venues, as de-tailed in Appendix A. A candidate needs to further meet the following criteria to be included in our study. We note that such criteria may exclude some works that are relevant to firmware emulation. We discuss how this decision influences the findings of this SoK in §VII-B.  

> •

Monolithic Firmware. We only target monolithic firmware, corresponding to Type-II and Type-III firmware as defined in [24]. Linux-based firmware analysis re-search (Type-I) (e.g., [35], [36], [37], [38], [39], [40], [41]) which presents very different characteristics and challenges is excluded.  

> •

Life-Cycle Emulation. The work must emulate the full life-cycle of firmware execution. Therefore, hardware-in-the-loop (HITL) approaches (e.g., [42], [43], [44], [7], [45]) and approaches that emulate only a partial execution phase, such as startup-only emulation (e.g., Jetset [46]), are excluded. This criterion ensures objective evaluation of the work’s genuine emulation capability.  

> •

Generality. The work should support general firmware analysis rather than being specialized for a particular 3EC:       

> ICICLE
> EC:
> QEMU EC:
> Unicorn
> ED:
> Direct
> EPH: HALucinator
> EPH: SAFIREFUZZ
> EP(M,I): Conware
> EP(M,I): Pretender
> EP(D): DICE
> EP(D): GDMA
> EP(M,I): P2IM
> EP(M,I): Fuzzware
> EP(M,I): Ember-IO
> EP(M,I): MultiFuzz
> EP(I): AIM
> EP(I): Aidfuzzer
> EP(M,I): Automap
> EP(M,I): Laelaps
> EP(M,I): uEmu
> EP(M,I,D): SEmu
> EP(M,I,D): FlexEmu
> EP(M,I): Perry
> F: AFL F: AFL++ F: LibAFL F: LibFuzzer S: AIM
> FE(F):
> Ember-IO FE(I,M,F):
> Aidfuzzer
> FE(I,M,F):
> Hoedur
> FE(I,M,F):
> SplITS FE(I,M,F):
> MultiFuzz
> FE(I,M,F):
> PEMU
> EC:CPU Emulator
> ED:Direct Execution
> EP(M,I,D):Peripheral Emulation(MMIO,IRQ,DMA)
> S:Symbolic Execution
> F:General Fuzzer
> FE(I,M,F):Fuzzer Enhancement(Input,Mutation,Feedback)

Stage3 

Stage2 

> Open Sandbox

Fig. 2: Taxonomy and dependence relationships among emulation-based approaches in stage 2 and stage 3. TABLE I: Dependence information and summary of emulation-based approaches in stage 2/3 ( ∅: no dependence/enhancement) 

Tool [reference] Venue Avail.  Dependence Information In Stage 1 EC/ET: CPU Emulation/ Transplanted EP: Peripheral Emulation/ EPH: HAL Replacement Security Testing ISA Base EP Other Tested ISA MMIO IRQ DMA Method Enhancement 

Pretender [23] RAID’19 ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ HL EC:ARM-M HL-Base ✗ F:Fuzz FE( ∅,∅,∅,∅)

P 2IM [3] SEC’20 ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ∅ EC:ARM-M Pattern-base RR ✗ F:Fuzz FE( ∅,∅,∅,∅)HALucinator [27] SEC’21 ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ HC EC:ARM-M EPH:HAL Replacement F:Fuzz FE( ∅,∅,∅,∅)Laelaps [28] ACSAC’21 ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ∅ EC:ARM-M PC-base Random ✗ Unsupported -

μEmu [8] SEC’21 ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ∅ EC:ARM-M PC-base RR ✗ F:Fuzz FE( ∅,∅,∅,∅)Conware [6] Asia CCS’21 ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ HL EC:ARM-M HL-Base ✗ Unsupported -DICE [29] S&P’21 ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ∅ EC:ARM-M,MIPS32 P2IM Pattern-base F:Fuzz FE( ∅,∅,∅,∅)Fuzzware [5] SEC’22 ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ∅ EC:ARM-M PC-base RR,Fuzz ✗ F:Fuzz FE( ∅,∅,∅,∅)SEmu [4] CCS’22 ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Spec. EC:ARM-M Spec.-base Manual F:Fuzz FE( ∅,∅,∅,∅)AIM [30] TDSC’23 ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ∅ EC:ARM-M P2IM WS-base ✗ S:Symbolic -Ember-IO [10] Asia’23 ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ MM EC:ARM-M IP-base RR ✗ F:Fuzz FE( ∅,∅,F, ∅)ICICLE [31] ISSTA’23 ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ∅ EC:ARM-M,MSP430 Fuzzware RR ✗ F:Fuzz FE(I,M, ∅,∅)Hoedur [13] SEC’23 ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ∅ EC:ARM-M Fuzzware RR,Fuzz ✗ F:Fuzz FE(I,M,F, ∅)SplITS [15] ESORICS’23 ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ SC EC:ARM-M Fuzzware RR ✗ F:Fuzz FE(I,M,F, ∅)SAFIREFUZZ [32] SEC’23 ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ HC ET:ARM-M EPH:HAL Replacement F:Fuzz FE( ∅,∅,F) Perry [9] SEC’24 ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ HC EC:ARM-M HC-base ✗ F:Fuzz FE( ∅,∅,∅,∅)MultiFuzz [14] SEC’24 ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ∅ EC:ARM-M PC-Base RR,Fuzz ✗ F:Fuzz FE(I,M,F, ∅)GDMA [12] SEC’25 ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ∅ EC:ARM-M Fuzzware Pattern-base F:Fuzz FE( ∅,∅,∅,∅)Aidfuzzer [11] SEC’25 ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ∅ EC:ARM-M Fuzzware WS-base ✗ F:Fuzz FE (I,M,F, ∅)FlexEmu [33] CCS’25 ✗ ✓ ✓ ✓ HC EC:ARM-M LLM-assisted HC-base F:Fuzz FE( ∅,∅,∅,∅)PEmu [34] CCS’25 ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ∅ EC:ARM-M Fuzzware/SEmu/Hoedur ✗ F:Fuzz FE (I,M,F, ∅)

Dependence Information: ISA, Base Address, and Entry Point are required by all tools. 

Notations: ARM-M = ARM Cortex-M HC = HAL Code, MM = ELF Format Memory Map HL= Hardware-log, WS = Waiting State, PC = Path Constraints, IP=Input Playback. 

Enhancement, FE (I,M,F,C): I = Input Generation, M = Input Mutation, F = Execution Feedback, C = Crash Detection. 

platform or domain that requires substantial manual adap-tation. Analysis of baseband firmware [47], [48], [49], automotive systems [50], industrial-control systems [51], satellite firmware [52], USB firmware [53], [54], and TrustZone software [55] are examples of such work. 

• ARM Cortex-M. While MCUs encompass a wide range of architectures, ARM Cortex-M is the dominant one. Therefore, general firmware emulation tools treat ARM Cortex-M as a first-class target. We exclude tools that do not support ARM Cortex-M, including those spe-cialized for MSP430 [56] and x86 [57]. This eliminates architecture-specific bias, allowing for a more meaningful comparison of the emulation technique itself. 

• Dynamic Analysis. The emulation technique must sup-port at least one dynamic analysis task, particularly fuzzing. We exclude partial-emulation approaches de-signed primarily to assist static analysis (e.g., [58], [59]). In the end, 21 works in stage 2/3 were selected, as summa-rized in Table I. Figure 2 visualizes their technological interde-pendency. For example, most emulators are based on QEMU. For stage 1, we included OTACap [25] and FirmLine [26] due to their contributions in firmware recognition. For stage 4, FirmRCA [16] is the only post-fuzzing tool that we found in the literature. 

C. Stage 1: Emulation Configuration Reconnaissance 

Current firmware re-hosting techniques require detailed knowledge of the MCU model, specifically its ISA , base address ( Base ), and entry point ( EP ). Some tools also require other resources such as MCU specifications [4], I/O opera-tion logs from the original hardware [6], [23], or peripheral hardware abstraction layer (HAL) code or complete source code [27], [9], [15]. We list such dependency information for each tool in the middle columns of Table I. However, as mentioned in §II-B, these assumptions often do not apply to real-world firmware analysis tasks, as real-world firmware is typically a stripped black-box binary blob. Therefore, inferring the aforementioned information becomes a prerequisite for automated firmware emulation and analysis. Currently, only a few studies [60], [25], [26] explicitly address these challenges (ISA, Base, EP), all relying on heuristic-based approaches. 4FirmLine supports ISA detection with a statistical method that analyzes binary features to infer possible architectures and validates the results through reverse engineering, considering the architecture correct if valid function boundaries can be identified. For Base detection, FirmXRay [60] identifies po-tential absolute addresses, such as (1) function pointers used for indirect branches, (2) pointers to strings passed as function arguments, and (3) interrupt vector table (IVT) entries. It then selects a candidate base address that resolves the largest number of pointers correctly. OTACap [25] extends FirmXRay by generalizing base address detection beyond specific vendors such as TI and Nordic, while maintaining similar constraints on indirect calls, string pointers, and vector table entries. Like-wise, FirmLine relies primarily on absolute function pointers for base address resolution. For EP detection, FirmXRay assumes that the IVT is always located at the beginning of the firmware and extracts the reset handler address from it. 

D. Stage 2: Emulation 

Following system-on-chip (SoC) design principles, an MCU integrates multiple hardware components. We classify existing emulation-based studies according to the primary component they target: CPU emulation ( EC ), peripheral emulation ( EP ), peripheral hardware abstraction layer (HAL) replacement (EPH ), and transplanted execution ( ET ). 

1) EC: CPU Emulation: MCU devices exhibit significant diversity in CPU architectures, with ARM, MIPS, and RISC-V dominating the market. Tools such as QEMU [61] and Unicorn [62] already support a broad range of widely used embedded architectures. While QEMU is more comprehen-sive, Unicorn is lightweight and optimized for dynamic binary analysis at the cost of sacrificing some feature support, such as multimedia instructions. In addition, ICICLE [31] leverages the SLEIGH specifications from the Ghidra framework [63] to achieve CPU emulation, enabling flexible and efficient dynamic binary instrumentation. These tools serve as the foundation for many existing works, as illustrated in Figure 2. 

2) EP: Peripheral Emulation: As noted in §II, there are three primary types of peripheral I/O: MMIO, IRQ, and DMA. Accurate modeling of these behaviors is essential for firmware to interact correctly with its external environment, which is crucial for meaningful dynamic analysis. Peripheral emulation addresses this need by modeling these peripheral I/O operations, allowing firmware to execute as if it were on actual hardware. 

Heuristic-Based Peripheral Modeling. To emulate periph-eral MMIO operations, most existing solutions adopt different heuristic-based methods to infer peripheral behavior from firmware execution behaviors, as summarized in Table I. P2IM [3] first inferred register types from MMIO access patterns and generated corresponding read responses, but its assumptions are limited for complex peripherals. Subsequent work [46], [28], [5], [8] incorporates path constraints, as-suming that invalid peripheral responses lead to abnormal execution. μEmu [8] uses symbolic execution to learn fea-sible peripheral responses, whereas Fuzzware [5] relaxes such constraints and exposes peripheral reads to fuzzing inputs for broader exploration. Ember-IO [10] further reuses coverage-increasing fuzzing values as peripheral responses. Although effective for exploration, such heuristic modeling may sacrifice fidelity and introduce false positives [19]. For interrupt timing modeling , as summarized in Table I, current solutions typically adopt ad-hoc strategies such as the round-robin ( RR ) method by default. In this approach, an en-abled peripheral interrupt is triggered after every fixed number of basic blocks (e.g., 1,000). When multiple peripheral inter-rupts are enabled, the triggers are cycled in sequence. Tools such as Fuzzware and MultiFuzz further support a fuzzing-guided interrupt triggering method ( Fuzz ), where the interrupt intervals are determined dynamically based on fuzzing inputs. AIM and AidFuzzer have recently noted that fixed or fuzzing-guided strategies can cause firmware to remain in prolonged waiting states. To address this, they propose a context-aware approach that triggers interrupts when the firmware encounters 

waiting state conditions. These conditions include executing sleep instructions, accessing global objects that can be modi-fied by interrupt service routines (ISRs), or looping indefinitely during configuration phases. For DMA modeling , DICE [29] infers DMA behavior from heuristic MMIO access patterns but assumes relatively fixed register layouts. GDMA [12] instead iteratively learns DMA models from memory-access traces, supporting more diverse DMA behaviors. 

High-Fidelity Modeling. Inferring peripheral behavior solely from firmware execution is incomplete and inaccurate com-pared to real hardware. Researchers strive for higher-fidelity emulation by incorporating more detailed hardware knowl-edge. Pretender [23] and Conware [6] use peripheral I/O logs from real hardware or heuristic algorithms to develop peripheral models. However, this approach still depends on physical devices and may not fully capture hardware behaviors due to the limited scope and duration of the logs collected. To overcome hardware dependence, SEmu [4] applies natural language processing (NLP) to extract peripheral behavior specifications from hardware manuals, translating them into executable models. Similarly, Perry [9] creates high-fidelity peripheral emulator models by learning from open-source peripheral HAL code using symbolic execution. FlexEmu [33] further advances this by employing an LLM to automatically construct flexible and accurate peripheral models from open-source peripheral HAL code. 

3) EPH: HAL Replacement: Instead of directly modeling peripheral behavior, the hardware abstraction layer (HAL) of the firmware can be replaced with host-side implemen-tations [27] to circumvent peripheral emulation challenges. These approaches rely on identifying HAL functions from open-source driver code. However, not all firmware employs an HAL layer, and the overall effectiveness of this strategy largely depends on the accuracy of library matching algorithms used in HAL detection. 

4) ET: Transplanted Execution: Since ISA translation is computationally expensive, several studies have proposed 5TABLE II: Fuzzing enhancement methods (—: indicates no enhancement with its integrated general fuzzer in Figure 2) When only one element is present in the cell and preceded by a “+”, it signifies the addition of new feedback to the original edge coverage.)                   

> Tool Input Generation&Mutation Feedback
> Ember-IO —FERMCov ICICLE Cmplog +CompareCov Hoedur Input Extension+MultiStream FERMCov SplITS I2S FERMCov+CompareCov SAFIREFUZZ —Non-colliding Coverage MultiFuzz Input Extension+MultiStream+I2S BB Coverage Aidfuzzer Input Extension+MultiStream FERMCov PEMU Protocol-aware +Protocol-specific Probes

transplanting embedded programs to enable execution on high-end CPUs. For example, SAFIREFUZZ [32] allows ARM Cortex-M firmware to execute on ARM Cortex-A servers with-out CPU emulation by employing HAL function replacement and dynamic binary rewriting to handle peripheral interactions and accommodate Cortex-M–specific instructions. 

E. Stage 3: Security Testing 

This section discusses security testing techniques enabled by firmware emulation. 

1) F: Fuzzing: Firmware emulation is primarily employed to enable fuzzing-based firmware testing. This is because fuzzing, as a randomized testing technique, does not require highly accurate emulation but instead focuses on maximizing code coverage. Most existing emulators integrate general-purpose fuzzers such as AFL/AFL++ [64], LibAFL [65], and libFuzzer [66] as front-ends for input generation and mutation, as illustrated in Figure 2. The emulation environment serves as the back-end, responsible for test case execution, feedback collection, and crash detection. 

2) FE: Enhancement: Recent studies have shown that general-purpose fuzzers struggle to handle firmware-specific behaviors, resulting in reduced effectiveness and efficiency. Existing work therefore enhances fuzzing mainly through exe-cution feedback and input generation/mutation, as summarized in Table II. For execution feedback , Ember-IO [10] introduces “FERMCov” to distinguish ISR-induced edges from normal execution and reduce coverage nondeterminism. ICICLE [31] and MultiFuzz [14] further use P-code instrumentation to provide finer-grained branch-level feedback. For input generation and mutation , Hoedur [13] and MultiFuzz model firmware inputs as multiple peripheral streams rather than a single linear stream, enabling stream-aware scheduling and mutation. MultiFuzz additionally adopts ICICLE instrumentation for “Input-to-State (I2S)” replace-ment [67], while PEmu [34] introduces protocol-aware fuzzing for protocol-oriented firmware. For crash/hang detection , firmware fuzzers typically lack sanitizers and instead rely on coarse memory maps, access permissions, and emulator exceptions (see Table III). We normalize their failure reports into four categories: Unmapped 

TABLE III: The Generic Memory Layout and Permission Configuration in Fuzzware/Hoedur/MultiFuzz                   

> Segment Base Size Permission
> Text User-defined File size r-x Ram 0x2000_0000 0x10_0000 rw-Peripheral 0x4000_0000 0x2000_0000 rw-System Peripheral 0xE000_0000 0x1000_5000 rw-IRQ RET 0xFFFF_F000 0x1000 –x

Access , including read ( UR ), write ( UW ), and instruction fetch (UF ) outside mapped regions; Permission Violation ,including invalid read ( RV ), write ( WV ), and execution ( EV ); 

Unsupported Instruction (UI ); and Hang , where execution fails to consume input within a time or execution-count thresh-old (e.g., three million basic blocks in Hoedur/MultiFuzz). Appendix I maps tool-specific exceptions to these categories. 

3) S: Symbolic Execution: Beyond fuzzing, emulation has also been employed to facilitate symbolic execution. For example, AIM [30] leverages symbolic execution to predict interrupt-triggering behavior. Rather than integrating directly with fuzzing, AIM symbolizes data register reads and uses concolic execution for crash detection. Nonetheless, it depends on a basic memory error detector that aligns with the memory layout and permissions detailed in Table III. 

F. Stage 4: Diagnosis 

Bug diagnosis aims to identify the root cause of observed crashes and represents a critical yet time-consuming post-mortem analysis task. MCU firmware, typically monolithic, lacks common fault detection mechanisms such as segmenta-tion faults, leading to undetected memory corruptions—often referred to as “silent” bugs in prior studies [24]. As a result, crashes in MCU firmware often occur “late” long after the initial memory corruption, which significantly complicates bug diagnosis and increases the manual effort required. Recent research, FirmRCA [16] introduces automated bug diagnosis for re-hosting-based firmware fuzzing. FirmRCA employs backward taint analysis to trace the propagation of faulty data and identify instructions related to the root cause of the crash. It also captures memory snapshots during crash replay to assist the analysis, enabling more precise fault localization in MCU firmware. IV. L ARGE -S CALE EMPIRICAL STUDY OF SOTA T OOLS 

Current evaluations of emulation-based firmware analysis approaches remain limited in scope and depth. Particularly, they rely on small, overlapping datasets and assess only isolated components of the analysis pipeline. We analyze the firmware datasets utilized in existing studies, excluding unit tests. The results are shown in Figure 3. Compared to the diverse datasets used in rehosting-based Linux firmware research [68], datasets in monolithic MCU firmware research comprise only a few to several dozen samples. These datasets often include demo programs from open-source embedded OS communities like Zephyr and FreeRTOS, and firmware samples from specific chip vendors such as STM32, Atmel, 60 20 40 60  

> Firmware Count
> ST Atmel NXP Nordic TI Others
> 59 35 10 10 613
> Pretender P2IM HALucinator LaeLaps uEmu Conware DICE Fuzzware SEmu AIM Ember-IO ICICLE Hoedur SplITS SAFIREFUZZ Perry Multifuzz GDMA Aidfuzzer FlexEmu PEmu
> 010 20 30 40 50
> Count
> 910 16 121 14 743 16 821 10 36 24 14 223 16 22 39
> Dataset Source
> WYC (10 Tools) Pretender (8 Tools) P2IM (12 Tools) HALucinator (9 Tools) uEmu (7 Tools) Fuzzware (3 Tools) DICE (2 Tools) SEmu (2 Tools) Extra Open Source Samples

Fig. 3: The firmware samples used in evaluation of existing studies. The left figure shows the distribution by vendor. The right figure illustrates the composition of firmware sources used in each work. and NXP. Moreover, a few firmware collections are popular among many tools. For example, the P 2IM [3] and WYC [24] datasets have been used by 12 and 10 tools, respectively. Among 325 unique samples, only 133 are used by only one tool. On the one hand, this indicates a common benchmark in this field. On the other hand, this means tools might be overfitting to the specific characteristics of these samples, raising concerns about their applicability to more diverse real-world firmware. In this work, we present the first comprehensive, end-to-end evaluation of SOTA emulation-based approaches using a large-scale, real-world MCU firmware dataset. Our study systematically examines each stage of the automated firmware analysis workflow, evaluating whether the output of one stage provides sufficient information to enable the next. By feeding the results of each stage as inputs to subsequent stages, we assess the true interoperability, robustness, and completeness of existing emulation-based solutions. 

Experiment Setup. Building on top of the Ghidra API, our evaluation pipeline comprises over 25,000 lines of Kotlin code. It automates batch processing tasks, uses PostgreSQL to store test results and execution logs, and supports modular parallel testing. All experiments were conducted on a server with an Intel(R) Xeon(R) Platinum 8350C processor at 2.60 GHz, 512 GiB of memory, and 15 TB of storage. 

A. Evaluation Scope 

We present which tools are tested in our evaluation and which firmware samples are used. 

Tool Selection. Our goal was to run all the in-scope tools within a unified evaluation framework using the same dataset. However, tools that were inaccessible or did not function reli-ably in our environment were excluded. In stage 1, FirmXRay and FirmLine from the literature are included, along with rbasefind [69], a popular brute-force base address scanner. These tools automatically recover firmware base addresses and entry points from firmware binaries. Since no other informa-tion can be obtained from existing tools, we excluded tools re-quiring additional specifications, code-level information, ELF-formatted memory maps, or other hardware-dependent infor-mation in stages 2 and 3, as summarized in Table I. The remaining candidates were P 2IM [3], DICE [29] ( P 2IM plus DMA), AIM [30], μEmu [8], ICICLE [31], Fuzzware [5], GDMA [12] (Fuzzware plus DMA), MultiFuzz [14], Aid-Fuzzer [11], and Hoedur [13]. Additionally, MultiFuzz’s fuzzing front end incorporates ICICLE’s enhancements, while ICICLE’s peripheral emulation depends on Fuzzware. We therefore excluded ICICLE from the testing. For Stage 4, FirmRCA is the only tool that supports bug diagnosis within a firmware emulation environment. 

Firmware Collection. We used firmware datasets collected from OTACap (4,147 binary files, obtained from the au-thors) and FirmLine (21,507 binary files). Before conducting experiments, we verified and filtered these binaries to (1) retain firmware containing executable assembly code, and (2) identify their instruction set architectures (ISAs). From the total of 25,654 collected files, we first removed 6,634 non-executable files (e.g., .txt , .mp3 ). Among the remaining files, 1,421 binaries were in known executable formats, such as ELF. For unknown-format binaries, we used Ghidra to disassemble each candidate across popular ISAs [2]. Files for which Ghidra failed to identify at least ten valid functions were considered non-firmware and removed from further analysis (see Appendix G). We report the top ISAs identified among unknown-format binaries in Appendix B. In the end, 4,571 unique ARM Cortex-M firmware binaries were identified, forming the input dataset for the analysis pipeline. Using signature-based firmware recognition, we identify and categorize the firmware based on their vendors. Details are shown in Appendix D. 

B. Stage 1: Emulation Configuration Reconnaissance 

Since FirmLine does not provide an entry point local-ization method, we adopted the same assumption proposed in FirmXRay to identify entry points. Because ground-truth base addresses and entry points are unavailable for black-box firmware, we performed a screening before feeding the firmware in Stage 2. Using the Ghidra Emulator [70], we run each firmware with the base address and entry point obtained from Stage 1. If the firmware executes more than 10 unique instructions within the first 10,000 executed instructions with-out terminating, we consider the base address and entry point valid. Passing this screening does not guarantee correctness, 7TABLE IV: Base-address recovery results in Stage 1.             

> Tool No Output Base Address Output Pass Init. Screening Fail Init. Screening
> FirmXRay 19 2,468 2,084 FirmLine 2,953 391 1,227 rbasefind 913 1,227 2,431

but it removes configurations that are obviously wrong, as explained in Appendix G. 

Results. Table IV presents the base-address recovery results for FirmXRay, FirmLine, and rbasefind across 4,571 firmware samples. For each output, we further verified the results using the Ghidra Emulator. FirmXRay, FirmLine, and rbasefind produced 2,468, 391 and 1,227 candidates that passed initial screening, respectively. The reasons for no output and failed screening are discussed in §V. 

C. Stage 2: Emulation Initialization 

Since FirmXRay significantly outperforms FirmLine, we used the 2,468 samples whose FirmXRay-generated base addresses and entry points passed our verification for the subsequent Stage 2 experiments. We evaluated nine tools from the tool-selection process on this dataset. To maintain a consistent experimental method-ology, we categorized these tools according to the coupling between emulation (Stage 2) and security testing (Stage 3). 

1) Decoupled Emulator–Fuzzer: This category includes 

P 2IM, DICE, AIM, and μEmu. P 2IM and μEmu separate peripheral modeling from fuzzing by introducing a dedicated preprocessing stage. DICE and AIM depend on P 2IM to generate MMIO response models before modeling DMA or IRQ behavior. Due to the extensive time required for the peripheral model-ing phase, we imposed a 1-hour termination limit for each tool. 

P 2IM, AIM, and DICE failed on all 2,468 firmware images: 2,127 aborted immediately, and 341 remained in infinite loops during peripheral modeling for over one hour. These failures arise from two main issues. First, P 2IM depends on a gnu-mcu-eclipse version of QEMU [71], which only supports spe-cific ARM Cortex-M3/M4 MCU series, such as STM32 and Kinetis, and is incompatible with other memory maps. Second, the MMIO access classification patterns and modeling strategy employed by P 2IM are only effective for simple peripherals with straightforward usage, as noted in prior studies [8], [5]. Since AIM and DICE are based on P 2IM with enhancements for interrupts and DMA, they suffer from similar limitations. For μEmu, 651 images aborted without generating a pe-ripheral model, and 1,522 failed to produce peripheral emu-lation models within 1 hour. μEmu successfully generated a peripheral modeling files for only 295 samples. This limitation occurs because μEmu relies on concolic execution and requires at least one viable path for peripheral modeling without reach-ing invalid states, infinite loops, or long loops over 30,000 basic blocks. However, real-world firmware involves numerous peripheral reads (each requiring a new symbol) and diverse checks on these reads, leading to path explosion problems. TABLE V: Failed emulation of 2,468 firmware images after fuzzing initialization. “Total” is the number of unique samples.                                                    

> Fuzzware GDMA Hoedur MultiFuzz Total Problem
> UW 208 209 810 246 831 P1/2/3/5 UR 393 388 483 P1/2/3/5 RV 111P1/2/3/5 UF 49 54 46 P1/2/3/5 EV 00P1/2/3/5 WV 15 16 17 17 27 P1/2/3/5 UI 194 199 017 215 P4 Hang 53 54 65 62 67 P6 Others 105 110 102 123 141 P5/12
> Total 997 1,006 983 969 1,123

TABLE VI: Coverage distribution of firmware samples after one-hour fuzzing runs.                            

> <1[1,5) [5, 10) [10, 20) ≥20 Median Mean
> Fuzzware 137 319 369 282 144 7.00% 9.19% Hoedur 127 325 274 329 249 7.92% 11.73% MultiFuzz 228 420 237 367 236 6.60% 10.23%

2) Co-Designed Emulator–Fuzzer: This category com-prises Fuzzware, GDMA, MultiFuzz, AidFuzzer, and Hoedur. In these systems, peripheral modeling is closely integrated with fuzzing: peripheral interactions are inferred and modeled dynamically during the fuzzing loop. To evaluate their emulation capability, we conducted fuzzing initialization tests using three 512-byte seeds: all zero bytes, all one bytes, and alternating 0/1 bytes, as utilized by GDMA, Hoedur, and MultiFuzz. We considered emulation functional if all three seeds lead to successful execution of the first 3 million basic blocks. We classified any execution exceeding 3 million basic blocks but without any input consumption as a hang. As shown in Table V, 997, 1,006 and 969 samples failed to emulate on Fuzzware, GDMA, and MultiFuzz, respectively. AidFuzzer failed on 2,460 samples, with only 8 successful emulations. Detailed failure statistics for each seed and tool are provided in Appendix L. The failure patterns are similar across tools. Manual analysis shows that incorrect base addresses or entry points (P2/P3) commonly lead to unmapped accesses (UW/UR/UF), inaccurate emulation (P4-P9) leads to other crashes, and long delay loops produce hangs (P6), as discussed further in §V. 

D. Stage 3: Fuzzing and Runtime Results 

Due to the small number of samples supported by decoupled emulator–fuzzer tools and AidFuzzer in Stage 2, we con-tinued large-scale Stage 3 fuzzing with Fuzzware, GDMA, Hoedur, and MultiFuzz. We ran one-hour fuzzing campaigns on all supported samples three times, recording basic-block coverage, crashes, and hangs. For fair comparison, because MultiFuzz and Hoedur do not support DMA enhancement, we compare Fuzzware with MultiFuzz and Hoedur without the GDMA plugin for coverage and crash results. Out of 35 cases involving recognized DMA models, only 27 exhibited slight differences between GDMA-enable Fuzzware and the original Fuzzware. Detailed Fuzzware fuzzing results are provided in Appendix H. 8TABLE VII: Pairwise coverage comparison across fuzzers. A coverage difference of at least 1% on the same sample is counted as a win; smaller differences are counted as ties.                 

> Pair (F vs L) F Win L Win Tie Total*
> Fuzzware vs Hoedur 46 (5.76% avg) 440 (8.32% avg) 589 1,075 Fuzzware vs MultiFuzz 138 (3.21% avg) 451 (8.05% avg) 583 1,172 Hoedur vs MultiFuzz 368 (3.72% avg) 108 (8.05% avg) 805 1,281
> *: Total number of samples that both tools can support for fuzzing.

Coverage Results. The coverage distribution for samples com-pleting one-hour fuzzing is shown in Table VI. The average fuzzing coverage for all evaluated tools ranges only from 9% to 11%. Furthermore, only 426, 578, and 603 firmware sam-ples achieved coverage exceeding 10% for Fuzzware, Hoedur, and MultiFuzz, respectively. We also directly compared code coverage on the subsets of samples that each tool pair could fuzz. As shown in Table VII, Hoedur and MultiFuzz generally achieved higher coverage than Fuzzware, indicating improved fuzzing effectiveness. Among the three tools, Hoedur attained the highest overall coverage, although the differences were relatively small in most cases. 

Crash Results. Detailed crash results for the three fuzzers are shown in Appendix N. Crashes occurred in more than one third of the supported samples: 521/1,471 for Fuzzware, 681/1,499 for MultiFuzz, and 619/1,485 for Hoedur. Manual analysis revealed that most crashes are false positives, pri-marily caused by emulator limitations discussed in §V (P4– P9). Although the underlying problems are similar across tools, the number of reported crashes varies because the tools use different deduplication strategies. Fuzzware lacks built-in deduplication, whereas Hoedur and MultiFuzz deduplicate specific crash types differently. As a result, Fuzzware reports more crashes than MultiFuzz and Hoedur. Hoedur deduplicates UF/EV crashes based on the PC at the crash site, whereas MultiFuzz uses the last executed PC before the crash. Because the same underlying issue can lead to different unmapped or permission-violating crash PCs, especially for unmapped instruction fetches, MultiFuzz reports fewer crashes than Hoe-dur. We discuss the detailed differences between MultiFuzz’s and Hoedur’s deduplication strategies in Appendix K. We do not apply a single deduplication criterion across all tools because only Fuzzware provides detailed crash information with complete traces, whereas Hoedur and MultiFuzz provide only deduplicated crash results. 

Hang Results. Hoedur identified 27,987 hangs from 1,065 samples, whereas MultiFuzz found 2,987 hangs from 1,301 samples. Because Hoedur does not deduplicate hangs, its hang count is substantially higher than that of MultiFuzz. Manual analysis showed that current tools commonly hang on long delay loops, as detailed in §V (P6). 

E. Stage 4: Bug Diagnosis 

Given the large number of crashes from Stage 3, we randomly sample 100 crashes that achieve at least 10% code coverage for diagnosis. Crashes below this threshold are more likely to result from incomplete initialization rather than mean-ingful program execution; Appendix G details the rationale. 

Manual Validation. For each crash, we perform backward analysis from the crash site, following the call stack and ex-amining the relevant control- and data-flow dependencies. We identify where the corrupted value is defined or propagated, and trace its relationship to peripheral inputs and emulated hardware state. This allows us to determine whether the crash originates from genuine firmware logic or from emulation-induced behavior (P7/8/9). We compare the manually recon-structed causal chain against that automatically identified by FirmRCA. 

Results. FirmRCA analyzes the execution trace and reports a ranked list of candidate root-cause instructions. Among the 100 crashes, FirmRCA produces candidates for 98, while the remaining two return no diagnostic result. Manual validation confirms that all 98 diagnosed crashes are false crashes caused by P7–P9. For 79 cases, FirmRCA reports an instruction related to the immediate cause of the crash, but the underlying cause lies earlier in the execution, where inaccurate emulation corrupts the corresponding data or control flow. In the remain-ing cases, even the reported candidate locations are unrelated to the reconstructed causal chain. We further analyze these diagnostic limitations and their causes in §V (P10). V. M AIN FINDINGS FROM THE EMPIRICAL STUDY 

We observe a steady drop in both effective firmware samples and applicable tools along the evaluation pipeline, as visually summarized in Figure 4. During Stage 2, some firmware fails before fuzzing can start because the emulation environment cannot complete initialization; we summarize these initializa-tion failures and their associated problems in Table V. For samples that enter Stage 3, the evaluated tools report numerous crashes and hangs, most of which are false positives under our manual validation and sampling-based analysis. Table VIII summarizes the number of false crashes associated with each identified problem. We do not include Hoedur as its crash reports provide limited diagnostic context. In Appendix N and M, we also provide more detailed breakdown of crash types, crash counts, per-problem ratios within each type, and our heuristic attribution methodology. Below, we discuss the main problems found from our em-pirical study. The hashes of the numbered example firmware (e.g., #2915) we refer to during discussion are listed in Ap-pendix E. For readability, we rename variables and functions in decompiled snippets while preserving the original instructions and program logic. 

P1: Insufficient Information Sources. Stage-1 base-address recovery tools generally infer the load address from absolute pointers embedded in firmware, but differ in the sources they exploit. FirmXRay considers IVT entries, global function pointers, and global string pointers; FirmLine mainly relies on global function pointers; and rbasefind relies on global string pointers. When a firmware contains no such artifacts, these tools will fail. This limitation is particularly evident for 9Fig. 4: Sample attrition, stage-specific failures, and tool compatibility across the evaluation pipeline (F:Fuzzware, H:Hoedur; M:Multifuzz; A:AidFuzzer).                 

> Problem Fuzzware Multifuzz
> P4 12,315 (5.8%) 1,549 (2.3%) P5 148,448 (70.1%) 38,192 (56.3%) P7 6,127 (2.9%) 2,710 (4.0%) P8/9 12,201 (5.8%) 18,561 (27.3%) P12 -41 (0.1%) Unconfirmed 32,684 (15.4%) 6,840 (10.1%) Total 211,775 67,893

TABLE VIII: The approximate prevalence of identified issues causing false crashes. FirmLine and rbasefind, each of which relies on only one information source. 

P2: Improper Candidate Weighting and Selection. When using absolute addresses to infer the base address, stage-1 tools solely rely on the number of matches to weight candidates, leading to duplicated occurrences to dominate the analysis. In firmware #2915, 48 of the 57 IVT entries point to the same address ( 0xC069 ). Consequently, FirmXRay infers 

0x8A0C as the base address because it best matches these duplicates, even though it fails to resolve other candidates. Manual analysis yields the correct base address 0x1000 .Sometimes multiple candidates are produced, and existing tools, without more evidence for further validation, tend to choose an arbitrary one. For example, FirmXRay produces two candidate base addresses (0x1F000 and 0x26000 )for firmware #2797, and selects 0x1F000 . Manual analysis confirms 0x26000 to be the correct one. Such improper can-didate weighting and selection account for many configuration reconnaissance failures. 

P3: Invalid IVT Placement Assumption. FirmXRay assumes that the IVT starts at the beginning of the firmware image and uses its second entry (bytes 4-7), i.e., the reset handler, as the entry point. This assumption holds for the majority of complete firmware images whose IVTs are placed at the image start, such as certain Nordic and Texas Instruments firmware, but this rule is not universal. Sometimes, vendors may place some metadata or headers before the IVT, making the fixed IVT-at-base assumption invalid. For example, sample #1819, a resistance probe from CorTalk [72], starts with vendor-specific metadata rather than an IVT (see Listing 1). Interpreting bytes 4-7 as the reset-handler address therefore yields an invalid entry point, causing immediate crashes and configuration-verification failure. Sim-ilarly, firmware #11175 (Marvell 88W8686) is an OTA image that begins with an OTA-download header rather than the IVT.           

> 1 00000000 ds "R1ERj" 2 00000005 db 0x00,0x00,0x00,0xf4,0xcc 3 0000000a db 0x01,0x00,0xbc,0xfd,0xe5 4 0000000f ds "UApplication for RMU1ER"

Listing 1: Header excerpt from sample #1819 

Takeaway 1 : A single method has to trade off between reliability and generality in recovering base addresses and entry points. Strict heuristics are often chip specific but yield high accuracy, while general heuristics cover a wider range of firmware but may incur errors. A mixture of general and chip-specific heuristics is desirable to cover a wider range of firmware with sufficient accuracy. 

P4: Unsupported ISA Instructions. As shown in Figure 2, several firmware fuzzers use lightweight CPU-emulation back-ends with incomplete ISA support. For example, Fuzzware is based on Unicorn ver. 1.0.1, which does not support some instruction classes available in QEMU, including floating-point and multimedia instructions. For example, sample #3741 is drone firmware that performs floating-point computation for flight control. When execution reaches the floating-point instructions such as VLDR and VSTR , the emulator crashes. As shown in Table VIII, this limitation causes 12,315 false crashes across 74 samples in Fuzzware. In contrast, Hoedur, which uses QEMU as its backend, does not exhibit this issue. A similar limitation appears in MultiFuzz, whose SLEIGH-based instruction translator lacks support for some system instructions in Cortex-M, such as SVC .

P5: Inaccurate Memory Layout. Memory layouts are very device specific and may contain multiple RAM, flash, or ex-ternal regions. Existing firmware fuzzers, without an accurate memory layout of the target device, typically map a generic memory layout as shown in Table III. As a result, many legitimate accesses become unmapped or conflicting accesses and are consequently reported as crashes. For example, in the sample #227, the firmware accesses address 0xA0001000 to interact with an external peripheral, and in the sample #12123, external RAM at 0x60000AFC is legitimately accessed. These addresses fall outside the generic memory layout and cause spurious memory faults. Similarly, AidFuzzer maps only a part of the system-peripheral region 

0xE0000000-0xFFFFFFFF , leading to an immediate crash for 99% of the tested samples when the firmware accesses other system peripherals. We also observe that some firmware contains multiple fragments (e.g., bootloader, application, ra-dio controller, etc.), making the memory map more complex. For example, in the sample #3519, the image loads at 0x0 with a size of 131,072 bytes. However, its memory-fault ISR entry pointer is 0x1001CA01 , indicating an additional executable 10 region beyond the loaded image. Some firmware uses a high ROM base address that overlaps with the generic RAM region at 0x20000000 . For instance, the #2715 firmware uses a ROM base address of 0x20001f40 , which conflicts with the emulated RAM region. This ROM-RAM overlap results in memory access permission conflicts within the emulator, causing initialization failures in Hoedur, Fuzzware, and Multi-Fuzz. We identified 25 such cases, as recorded under “Others” in Table V. 

Takeaway 2 : Robust CPU emulation necessitates extensive ISA support (P4). Worse, architecture-level default config-urations cannot capture the diversity of real-world memory layouts (P5). In practice, accurately extracting memory maps from black-box, stripped firmware is challenging. 

P6: Absolute Speed Gap. Emulator execution is typically orders of magnitude slower than native execution on real hardware. This speed gap is not a problem in general. How-ever, it can become a bottleneck when firmware contains long delay loops, which are common in real-world firmware. For example, in firmware #7658 (Listing 2) during normal device initialization, delay_millis invokes count_us 

999 times per millis ; each call executes three basic blocks. When millis equals 1,500, the delay alone executes over three million basic blocks. Since Hoedur and MultiFuzz treat executions beyond three million basic blocks as a timeout, fuzzing terminates before reaching subsequent code.               

> 1 void delay_millis(int millis) {2while (millis) {--millis; count_us(999);} 3 } 4 void count_us (int count) {5do --count; 6while (count); 7 }

Listing 2: Delay-loop in the sample #7658. 

Takeaway 3 : Long delay loops are common during periph-eral initialization. Emulating these delays faithfully hurts fuzzing efficiency. 

P7: Incorrect Interrupt Timing. On real devices, a peripheral interrupt is triggered only when three conditions hold: (1) the interrupt is enabled in the interrupt controller, (2) the corresponding peripheral interrupt-enable bits are set, and (3) the required hardware event occurs. Most existing approaches (see Table I), including Fuzzware, Hoedur, and MultiFuzz, only consider the first condition. Therefore, all the enabled interrupts have a chance to be triggered. This can invoke an ISR before the corresponding peripheral has been initialized, creating infeasible executions and false crashes. For example, all crashes in sample #2938 occur upon the entry to ISR numbered 21, which dereferences an uninitialized function pointer whose value resolves to 0x20003C00 .

P8: Inaccurate Peripheral Responses. Existing peripheral-modeling approaches do not understand the semantic behavior of the underlying hardware. Incorrect peripheral modelling can violate hardware state and drive firmware into infeasible executions. For example, in the USART ISR of the sample #2691 (Listing 3), frameLen records the amount of received data and should be updated only upon the corresponding re-ceiving event. However, existing tools unconditionally trigger the ISR by satisfying checks on status registers. Consequently, 

frameLen may remain zero while the branch is taken, causing idx to exceed rxBuf and eventually triggering an invalid function-pointer dereference. In the sample #1179, incorrect emulated values cause the firmware to remain in the loop until a timeout occurs. In the sample #15998, an unexpected clock-control register value causes an immediate persistent hang.                    

> 1 int IRQ_handler(void) {2if((MEM[0x40002304]&4)!=0 && MEM[0x40002108]){ 3*(rxBuf +idx++) =MEM[0x40002518]; 4if (frameLen == idx) {5frameLen =0; ...

Listing 3: USART ISR in the sample #2691. 

P9: Incomplete Peripheral Modeling. Existing models clas-sify registers as configuration registers (CRs), status registers (SRs), or data registers (DRs). Beyond producing inaccurate values (P8), this abstraction cannot represent many register semantics found in real devices. In complex peripherals such as USB, Ethernet, and radio controllers, register values may encode addresses, offsets, descriptors, or other metadata used to access peripheral memory. Simplifying peripheral register usage to broad CR/SR/DR roles can miss richer hardware semantics and generate emulation-induced false crashes. For example, in the sample #18803, GDMA models DMA incorrectly, treating a pointer as DMA data. By supplying fuzzing input to the pointer, the firmware eventually crashes when it fetches an invalid instruction. In the sample #820 (Listing 4), address 0x40005C50 corresponds to the USB Buffer Table Address ( USB_BTABLE ) register, whose bits 15– 3 specify the buffer-table location. However, Fuzzware treats it as a generic input and supplies unconstrained fuzzing data. In one crashing execution, the register returns 0xF3F3F3F3 

at Line 2, which is then interpreted as address-related metadata and leads to an out-of-bounds read at 0x27E84822 at Line 5.         

> 1 ldr r3,[DAT_08028d9c] ;= 40005C00h 2 ldr r2,[r3,#0x50] ;=>DAT_40005c50 3 addw r3,r3,#0x43c 4 lsls r2,r2,#0x1 5 ldr r3,[r3,r2]

Listing 4: Peripheral-derived memory addresses in the sample #820. 

Takeaway 4 : Low-fidelity heuristic peripheral I/O modeling (P7/P8/P9) frequently produces false crashes. Improving peripheral emulation fidelity remains difficult, especially in black-box settings. 

P10: Shallow Root-Cause Diagnosis. Although FirmRCA can backtrack crash-related data dependencies and report candidate root-cause locations, it cannot provide sufficient context to validate or rank their causal relevance. For example, 11 the sample #3349 crashes on a NULL-pointer dereference at 

0xC . FirmRCA traces the invalid pointer back to a firmware memory-initialization site. Manual analysis, however, shows that the actual root cause occurs earlier: an inaccurate pe-ripheral response drives execution down an incorrect branch, skipping the function that should initialize the pointer and eventually causing the invalid dereference. Technically, Firm-RCA lacks fine-grained control-flow and input-context analy-sis to explain how an incorrect value or initialization state was reached. 

Takeaway 5 : Accurate diagnosis of firmware crashes re-mains challenging (P10), as the root cause may involve in-tertwined data- and control-flow dependencies, compounded by the emulation error itself. 

P11: Poor Scalability. Our evaluation reveals substantial time and memory overheads across the stages. In Stage 1, Fir-mXRay and FirmLine perform near-brute-force base-address inference. In several cases, FirmLine spawned excessive sub-processes and consumed over 200 GB of memory (see Ap-pendix F). In Stage 2, most decoupled Emulator–Fuzzer tools failed to complete the peripheral modeling phase within one hour for most samples. In Stage 4, FirmRCA performs taint-based root-cause analysis and suffers from taint explosion on long crash traces; as trace length increases, both analysis time and memory consumption grow almost exponentially. 

P12: Implementation Limitations. Beyond design issues such as peripheral modeling limitations, we identify addi-tional failures stemming from incomplete or incorrect tool implementations. These cases are categorized as “Others” in Stage 2 (Table V) and Stage 3 (Appendix N). For example, Hoedur, Fuzzware, and MultiFuzz do not implement ARM hardware reset through the VECTRESET field of AIRCR ,causing execution to abort when firmware requests a reset. This limitation affects 94 samples. MultiFuzz occasionally misdecodes ARM/Thumb code and does not correctly handle instruction-set mode transitions. When execution switches to Thumb code, incorrect decoding can corrupt processor state. A detailed breakdown of these failures is provided in Appen-dices J and L. 

P13: Miscellaneous. First, most existing emulators predomi-nantly support ARM Cortex-M, with limited support for non-ARM architectures. Second, many tools require prerequisite information often unavailable for black-box firmware. As shown in the “Dependence Information” column, only 12 out of 21 Stage-2 tools can function without additional information beyond the base address and entry point. Third, Stage-3 tools are frequently tied to specific Stage-2 tool implementations, restricting interoperability between emulators and downstream analysis tools. These architectural, informational, and integra-tion constraints limit the applicability of current techniques. 

Takeaway 6 : The practical utility of firmware emulation tools depends not only on their core techniques, but also on scalable and robust implementations, minimal prerequisite information, broad architecture support, and interoperability across workflow stages. VI. F UTURE DIRECTIONS 

Based on the pitfalls in §V, we outline six directions (D1– D6) for reliable, scalable, and comparable analysis of real-world MCU firmware. 

D1. Emulation Configuration Reconnaissance. Stage 1 re-mains underexplored but is essential for re-hosting stripped black-box firmware. Rather than relying on individual heuris-tics, future methods should jointly infer the ISA, execution mode, memory layout, entry point, HAL functions, MCU model, and other platform metadata from complementary structural and semantic evidence. This broader recovery is necessary because existing approaches require different pre-requisites and coarse configurations can cause false failures. Explicitly representing uncertainty would further allow down-stream tools to refine or reject ambiguous configurations before analysis. 

D2. Extensible Emulation Frameworks. Emulation advances remain difficult to reuse because tools bind peripheral models, DMA and interrupt support, and fuzzing logic to incompatible back ends; for example, GDMA is currently applicable only to Fuzzware, whereas AIM and DICE target P 2IM. A common substrate should separate CPU execution, hardware modeling, event scheduling, and analysis through stable APIs for mem-ory maps, MMIO, interrupts, DMA, state inspection, tracing, and feedback. LibAFL-QEMU [73] and ICICLE [31] are promising foundations, but need broader architecture support, complete interfaces, and competitive performance. 

D3. High-Fidelity Automatic Peripheral Modeling. Heuris-tic models may preserve execution while misrepresenting reg-ister semantics, peripheral responses, and interrupt timing (P7– P9). Higher-fidelity approaches such as FlexEmu and SEmu require HAL code or MCU specifications that may be un-available for black-box firmware. Future work should construct reusable peripheral-behavior repositories from specifications, drivers, and hardware traces, then match or synthesize context-sensitive models using static and runtime evidence. Models should expose both their assumptions and uncertainty, not merely whether they keep firmware running. 

D4. Emulation-Based Postmortem Analysis. Inaccurate em-ulation creates false crashes, while genuine MCU bugs may have delayed or weak symptoms [24]. Existing tools provide limited replay, deduplication, and causal diagnosis, and P10 shows that data flow alone is insufficient. Postmortem systems should combine inputs, control and data dependencies, pe-ripheral and interrupt events, and emulator state in replayable traces to distinguish firmware bugs from modeling artifacts, group related failures, and identify both the triggering opera-tion and earlier state corruption. 12 D5. Realistic and Unified Benchmarks. MCU benchmarks under-represent peripheral diversity and favor simple MMIO polling over interrupt-, DMA-, state-, and timing-dependent behavior. Unified benchmarks should span architectures, ven-dors, models, RTOSes, and peripheral classes, with ground truth for configuration, hardware-visible behavior, vulnerabili-ties, triggering inputs, and root causes. Fidelity metrics should measure trace and state agreement, not only boot or execution progress. The domain still lacks a widely adopted counterpart to LAVA-M [74]; FirmRebugger [75] is a promising step toward fuzzing ground-truth evaluation. 

D6. Standardized Evaluation Criteria. MCU firmware anal-ysis lacks consistent criteria across the pipeline. Comparabil-ity requires common reporting of prerequisites, assumptions, manual effort, resource use, and tool versions. Emulation success should be evaluated with firmware-dependent fidelity levels, rather than simply whether firmware runs without exceptions, following the spirit of Greenhouse [38]. Fuzzing should also adopt consistent definitions and reporting for initialization, throughput, coverage, timeouts, crashes, hangs, deduplication, and false-positive validation, consistent with general-purpose fuzzing practices [76]. Machine-readable con-figurations and outputs would further improve reproducibility. VII. D ISCUSSION AND LIMITATIONS 

A. Progress on Past Challenges, Persistent Issues, and Emerg-ing Challenges 

After five years of research, we revisit the challenges and mitigation techniques identified by prior SoKs [17], [18] in light of our large-scale evaluation. We summarize our findings in Table IX, classifying each challenge as either P (Persistent) if it remains valid or E (Emerging) if it is newly identified in this study. Unfortunately, despite significant advancements in mitigation techniques, none of the challenges identified by prior SoKs is fully resolved. We revisit the mitigation methods proposed in prior SoKs. Our experiments provide concrete evidence as to why they cannot fully address these challenges, especially for black-box firmware. Under each challenge, our table lists the cor-responding mitigation methods and the evidence from our evaluation that highlights their limitations. Additionally, we identify challenges overlooked in prior SoKs. Notably, post-fuzzing analysis for MCU firmware was largely non-existent before. Our evaluation uncovers difficulties in distinguishing genuine firmware defects from emulation-induced crashes and in reliably diagnosing their root causes. Our pipeline perspective also reveals cross-stage interface and dependency issues that are difficult to detect when emulation, fuzzing, and diagnosis are studied independently. The corresponding takeaways, problems, and future directions are linked through identifiers in the table. 

B. Limitations of This Study 

Our study is framed within a pipeline-oriented approach for real-world black-box firmware. Many tools that are not compatible with this pipeline, e.g., those that require specific inputs or configurations that are unavailable, are excluded from our evaluation. For example, some high-fidelity peripheral modeling tools like SEmu [4], HALucinator [27], and Perry [9] require hardware manuals or source-level HAL/driver code. For black-box firmware, this is very challenging. P4-P9 might be biased specifically because of this limitation. Our pipeline does not test how these tools deal with non-ARM firmware. Limiting the scope to ARM enables a more focused evaluation of the emulation technique itself. However, this also means our findings are not directly applicable to other architectures. Lastly, our evaluation involves many empirical observations. For example, we use a threshold of 10 valid functions to distinguish firmware from non-code blobs. While we have striven to ensure objectivity, some of our conclusions may be influenced by subjective judgments. We have attempted to mitigate this by providing detailed evidence and rationales for our assessments in Appendix G, but we acknowledge that different researchers may interpret the same data differently. VIII. C ONCLUSION 

In this SoK, we systematized MCU firmware emulation-based research within a unified four-stage dynamic analysis workflow covering emulation configuration reconnaissance, emulation, fuzzing, and bug diagnosis. We then conducted the first large-scale empirical evaluation of SOTA approaches on real-world MCU firmware. Through statistical analysis and detailed case studies, we exposed recurring pitfalls that limit current tools, including fragile configuration inference, incomplete emulation support, low-fidelity peripheral model-ing, unreliable crash diagnosis, and engineering limitations that hinder large-scale use. We hope these findings and future directions provide a foundation for more robust, comparable, and practical firmware dynamic analysis systems. ETHICAL CONSIDERATIONS 

Our study applies existing emulation-based analysis and fuzzing tools to real-world firmware and reports tens of thousands of crashes. As shown in our analysis, many crashes result from emulation inaccuracies and are false positives. However, manually validating every crash is infeasible, leaving some unverified crashes that could be false positives. To date, we have not confirmed any previously unknown vulnerability. If a real vulnerability is identified, we will promptly notify the affected vendor and follow responsible disclosure practices. To prevent misuse, we only release aggregate statistics for unverified crashes. Some firmware may be subject to copyright or redistribution restrictions. We do not redistribute firmware images directly as is done in the current practice; researchers can reconstruct the benchmark using authorized sources and the provided hash values for the firmware. OPEN SCIENCE AND ARTIFACT AVAILABILITY 

To enable future research, we release the following artifacts at https://github.com/IoTS-P/LargeRehostingTesting. 13 TABLE IX: Firmware Emulation Revisited: Progress on Past Challenges, Persistent Issues (P), and Emerging Challenges (E).                                                                           

> Stage Conclusion Reference Takeaway/Evidence Problem Direction
> S1 Challenge: Emulation requires firmware metadata (memory layout, ISA, entry point (EP), etc.). P ([17]:§7; [18]:§3.1–3.2) Takeaway 1 P1–P3 D1
> ,→Method: Infer base addresses from function addresses via statistical voting. [17]:§7.3 ,→Evidence: Sparse candidates and equal-weight voting can cause incorrect inference. P1–P2
> ,→Method: Infer EP from hardware conventions (e.g., Cortex-M initial PC at vector-table offset 0x4). [17]:§7.4 ,→Evidence: Unknown hardware or customized image layouts invalidate fixed-offset assumptions. P3 S2 Challenge: Peripheral diversity exceeds the number of supported peripherals in any emulation system. P ([17]:§8.1.1; [18]:§4.4,4.6) Takeaway 4 P7–P9,P13 D3 S3 ,→Method: Use fuzzer-based peripheral modeling to enable vulnerability discovery. [17]:§8.1.1 ,→Evidence: Low-fidelity modeling can produce many false crashes. P8,P9 S2 ,→Method: Trigger IRQs manually, invoke handlers, or patch automatic triggers. [17]:§8.2.6 ,→Evidence: Incorrect IRQ timing causes failures; existing triggering strategies lack generality. P7 S2 ,→Method: Handle peripheral interactions and DMA through Hardware-in-the-loop or HAL abstractions. [17]:§8.1.1,8.2.5; [18]:§5.2–5.3
> ,→Evidence: Hardware/HAL-dependent approaches do not readily generalize to black-box firmware. P13 S2 Challenge: Locate data, code, and peripheral regions. P ([17]:§7.5) Takeaway 2 P5 D1
> ,→Method: Use built-in memory handlers or custom modules for memory interactions. [17]:§8.1.2,8.1.4 ,→Evidence: Requires layout/behavior knowledge often unavailable in black-box firmware. P5 S2 Challenge: Full ISA support for CPU emulation. ETakeaway 2 P4 D2 S3 Challenge: Long delay loops hinder fuzzing. ETakeaway 3 P6 D2 S2/3 Challenge: Verifying re-hosting fidelity remains difficult. P ([17]:§9.2; [18]:§3.4,7.4) Takeaway 6 -D5–D6 S4 Challenge: Accurate bug diagnosis under emulated execution. ETakeaway 5 P10 D4 S1/2/3/4 Challenge: Performance, implementation, and applicability limitations. ETakeaway 6 P11–P13 D5–D6 Some conclusions are simplified while retaining their original meaning. Section numbers following references indicate the corresponding sections in [17], [18].

Evaluation Framework. The source code of our automated pipeline-based firmware evaluation framework. 

Evaluated Tools and Configurations. Snapshots of all evalu-ated tools, including tool versions, build instructions, patches, and per-tool configurations, subject to their respective licenses. 

Evaluation Results. Final results and intermediate outputs in each pipeline stage:  

> •

Stage 1: Recovered base addresses and entry points, configuration-verification results, and problem categories for failed verification.  

> •

Stage 2: For each tool-firmware combination, the initial-ization results, the used seeds, and problem categories for unsuccessful cases.  

> •

Stage 3: For each tool-firmware combination, the fuzzing results, including coverage, deduplicated crash counts, and problem categories for unsuccessful cases.  

> •

Stage 4: Diagnostic outputs from FirmRCA and the corresponding manual verification results. 

Details of the Empirical Study. The detailed evaluation results and additional cases for each problem to support the findings and conclusions discussed in §V. 

Firmware Dataset Reconstruction Methods. FirmLine [26] firmware is publicly available, whereas OTACap [25] dataset is authorized by the original authors under a non-disclosure agreement. To uniquely identify and reconstruct the evaluated benchmark, we provide MD5 hashes, source-dataset identi-fiers, and mappings. Researchers can use these to retrieve the original firmware from the respective sources. We also provide firmware metadata recoverable from prior techniques and collected artifact signatures, including vendor, OS, and device/MCU model information where identifiable. ACKNOWLEDGMENT 

We sincerely appreciate our shepherd and all the anonymous reviewers for their insightful and valuable feedback. This work was supported by National Natural Science Foundation of China (NSFC) grant (62202188). REFERENCES [1] IOT ANALYTICS, “State of IoT 2024: Number of connected IoT devices growing 13% to 18.8 billion globally,” https://iot-analytics.com/number-connected-iot-devices/#: ∼:text=Number%20of%20connected%20IoT%20devices%20to%20g row,18.8%20billion%20by%20the%20end%20of%202024., 2025, last accessed: 2025-10-01. [2] ECLIPSE FOUNDATION, “2024 IoT & Embedded Developer Survey Report,” https://outreach.eclipse.foundation/iot-embedded-developer-s urvey-2024, 2025, last accessed: 2025-10-01. [3] B. Feng, A. Mera, and L. Lu, “P2im: Scalable and hardware-independent firmware testing via automatic peripheral interface modeling,” in Pro-ceedings of Usenix Security Symposium , 2020. [4] W. Zhou, L. Zhang, L. Guan, P. Liu, and Y. Zhang, “What your firmware tells you is not how you should emulate it: A specification-guided approach for firmware emulation,” in Proceedings of the 2022 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security , 2022, pp. 3269–3283. [5] T. Scharnowski, N. Bars, M. Schloegel, E. Gustafson, M. Muench, G. Vigna, C. Kruegel, T. Holz, and A. Abbasi, “Fuzzware: Using precise MMIO modeling for effective firmware fuzzing,” in 31st USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 22) . Boston, MA: USENIX Association, 2022. [Online]. Available: https://www.usenix.o rg/conference/usenixsecurity22/presentation/scharnowski [6] C. Spensky, A. Machiry, N. Redini, C. Unger, G. Foster, E. Blasband, H. Okhravi, C. Kruegel, and G. Vigna, “Conware: Automated modeling of hardware peripherals,” in Proceedings of the 2021 ACM Asia Con-ference on Computer and Communications Security , 2021, pp. 95–109. [7] J. Y. Won, H. Wen, and Z. Lin, “What you see is not what you get: Revealing hidden memory mapping for peripheral modeling,” in 25th International Symposium on Research in Attacks, Intrusions and Defenses, RAID 2022, Limassol, Cyprus, October 26-28, 2022 . ACM, 2022, pp. 200–213. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/3545948.3545957 [8] W. Zhou, L. Guan, P. Liu, and Y. Zhang, “Automatic firmware emula-tion through invalidity-guided knowledge inference,” in 30th USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 21) , 2021. 

14 [9] L. Chongqing, L. Zhen, Z. Yue, Y. Yan, L. Junzhou, and F. Xinwen, “A friend’s eye is a good mirror: Synthesizing mcu peripheral models from peripheral driver,” in USENIX Security , 2024. [10] G. Farrelly, M. Chesser, and D. C. Ranasinghe, “Ember-io: Effective firmware fuzzing with model-free memory mapped io,” in Proceedings of the 2023 ACM Asia conference on computer and communications security , 2023. [11] J. Wang, Q. Wang, T. Scharnowski, L. Shi, S. Woerner, and T. Holz, “{AidFuzzer }: Adaptive {Interrupt-Driven } firmware fuzzing via {Run-Time } state recognition,” in 34th USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 25) , 2025, pp. 1769–1786. [12] T. Scharnowski, S. Hoffmann, M. Bley, S. W¨ orner, D. Klischies, F. Buchmann, N. O. Tippenhauer, T. Holz, and M. Muench, “ {GDMA }:Fully automated {DMA } rehosting via iterative type overlays,” in 34th USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 25) , 2025, pp. 1827– 1845. [13] T. Scharnowski, S. Woerner, F. Buchmann, N. Bars, M. Schloegel, and T. Holz, “Hoedur: Embedded firmware fuzzing using multi-stream inputs,” in 32nd USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 23) .Boston, MA: USENIX Association, Aug. 2023. [Online]. Available: https://www.usenix.org/conference/usenixsecurity23/presentation/schar nowski [14] M. Chesser, S. Nepal, and D. C. Ranasinghe, “Multifuzz: A multi-stream fuzzer for testing monolithic firmware,” in 33rd USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security) , 2024. [15] G. Farrelly, P. Quirk, S. S. Kanhere, S. Camtepe, and D. C. Ranasinghe, “Splits: Split input-to-state mapping for effective firmware fuzzing,” in 

European Symposium on Research in Computer Security . Springer, 2023, pp. 290–310. [16] B. Chang, B. Zhao, Q. Zhang, P. Liu, Y. Tian, R. Beyah, and S. Ji, “Firmrca: Towards post-fuzzing analysis on arm embedded firmware with efficient event-based fault localization,” in 2025 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP) . IEEE, 2025, pp. 3783–3800. [17] C. Wright, W. A. Moeglein, S. Bagchi, M. Kulkarni, and A. A. Clements, “Challenges in firmware re-hosting, emulation, and analysis,” ACM Computing Surveys (CSUR) , vol. 54, no. 1, pp. 1–36, 2021. [18] A. Fasano, T. Ballo, M. Muench, T. Leek, A. Bulekov, B. Dolan-Gavitt, M. Egele, A. Francillon, L. Lu, N. Gregory et al. , “Sok: Enabling security analyses of embedded systems via rehosting,” in Proceedings of the 2021 ACM Asia Conference on Computer and Communications Security , 2021, pp. 687–701. [19] W. Zhou, S. Shen, and P. Liu, “Iot firmware emulation and its security application in fuzzing: A critical revisit,” Future Internet , vol. 17, no. 1, p. 19, 2025. [20] A. Asmita, R. Tsang, S. Ghimire, S. Salehi, and H. Homayoun, “Bare-metal firmware fuzzing: A survey of techniques and approaches,” IEEE Access , vol. 13, pp. 98 253–98 277, 2025. [21] A. Qasem, P. Shirani, M. Debbabi, L. Wang, B. Lebel, and B. L. Agba, “Automatic vulnerability detection in embedded devices and firmware: Survey and layered taxonomies,” ACM Computing Surveys (CSUR) ,vol. 54, no. 2, pp. 1–42, 2021. [22] J. Yun, F. Rustamov, J. Kim, and Y. Shin, “Fuzzing of embedded systems: A survey,” ACM Computing Surveys , vol. 55, no. 7, pp. 1– 33, 2022. [23] E. Gustafson, M. Muench, C. Spensky, N. Redini, A. Machiry, Y. Fratan-tonio, D. Balzarotti, A. Francillon, Y. R. Choe, C. Kruegel et al. ,“Toward the analysis of embedded firmware through automated re-hosting,” in 22nd International Symposium on Research in Attacks, Intrusions and Defenses ( {RAID } 2019) , 2019, pp. 135–150. [24] M. Muench, J. Stijohann, F. Kargl, A. Francillon, and D. Balzarotti, “What you corrupt is not what you crash: Challenges in fuzzing embedded devices.” in NDSS , 2018. [25] N. Nino, R. Lu, W. Zhou, K. H. Lee, Z. Zhao, and L. Guan, “Unveiling 

{IoT } security in reality: A {Firmware-Centric } journey,” in 33rd USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 24) , 2024, pp. 5609– 5626. [26] A. Balgavy and M. Muench, “Firmline: a generic pipeline for large-scale analysis of non-linux firmware,” in Proceedings of the Workshop on Binary Analysis Research (BAR) , 2024. [27] A. A. Clements, E. Gustafson, T. Scharnowski, P. Grosen, D. Fritz, C. Kruegel, G. Vigna, S. Bagchi, and M. Payer, “ {HALucinator }:Firmware re-hosting through abstraction layer emulation,” in 29th USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 20) , 2020, pp. 1201– 1218. [28] C. Cao, L. Guan, J. Ming, and P. Liu, “Device-agnostic firmware execution is possible: A concolic execution approach for peripheral emulation,” in Annual Computer Security Applications Conference ,2020, pp. 746–759. [29] A. Mera, B. Feng, L. Lu, and E. Kirda, “Dice: Automatic emulation of dma input channels for dynamic firmware analysis,” in 2021 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP) . IEEE, 2021, pp. 1938–1954. [30] B. Feng, M. Luo, C. Liu, L. Lu, and E. Kirda, “Aim: Automatic interrupt modeling for dynamic firmware analysis,” IEEE Transactions on Dependable and Secure Computing , 2023. [31] M. Chesser, S. Nepal, and D. C. Ranasinghe, “Icicle: A re-designed emulator for grey-box firmware fuzzing,” in Proceedings of the 32nd ACM SIGSOFT International Symposium on Software Testing and Analysis , 2023, pp. 76–88. [32] L. Seidel, D. Maier, and M. Muench, “Forming faster firmware fuzzers,” in USENIX Security , 2023. [Online]. Available: https: //www.usenix.org/conference/usenixsecurity23/presentation/seidel [33] C. Lei, Z. Ling, X. Xu, S. Li, G. Liu, K. Dong, and J. Luo, “Flexemu: Towards flexible mcu peripheral emulation (extended version),” in 

Proceedings of the 2025 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security , 2025. [34] M. Bley, T. Scharnowski, S. W¨ orner, M. Schloegel, and T. Holz, “Protocol-aware firmware rehosting for effective fuzzing of embedded network stacks,” in Proceedings of the 2025 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security , 2025, pp. 4484–4498. [35] D. D. Chen, M. Woo, D. Brumley, and M. Egele, “Towards automated dynamic analysis for linux-based embedded firmware.” in NDSS , vol. 1, 2016, pp. 1–1. [36] Y. Zheng, A. Davanian, H. Yin, C. Song, H. Zhu, and L. Sun, “{FIRM-AFL }:{High-Throughput } greybox fuzzing of {IoT } firmware via augmented process emulation,” in 28th USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 19) , 2019, pp. 1099–1114. [37] M. Kim, D. Kim, E. Kim, S. Kim, Y. Jang, and Y. Kim, “Firmae: Towards large-scale emulation of iot firmware for dynamic analysis,” in Annual Computer Security Applications Conference , 2020, pp. 733– 745. [38] H. J. Tay, K. Zeng, J. M. Vadayath, A. S. Raj, A. Dutcher, T. Reddy, W. Gibbs, Z. L. Basque, F. Dong, Z. Smith et al. , “Greenhouse: Single-service rehosting of linux-based firmware binaries in user-space emulation,” in 32nd USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 23) ,2023, pp. 5791–5808. [39] H. Xiao, Z. Wei, J. Dai, B. Li, Y. Zhang, and M. Yang, “Housefuzz: Service-aware grey-box fuzzing for vulnerability detection in linux-based firmware,” in 2025 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP) . IEEE, 2025, pp. 3801–3819. [40] A. Costin, J. Zaddach, A. Francillon, and D. Balzarotti, “A {Large-scale } analysis of the security of embedded firmwares,” in 23rd USENIX security symposium (USENIX Security 14) , 2014, pp. 95–110. [41] M. Kammerstetter, C. Platzer, and W. Kastner, “Prospect: peripheral proxying supported embedded code testing,” in Proceedings of the 9th ACM symposium on Information, computer and communications security , 2014, pp. 329–340. [42] J. Zaddach, L. Bruno, A. Francillon, D. Balzarotti et al. , “Avatar: A framework to support dynamic security analysis of embedded systems’ firmwares.” in NDSS , vol. 14, 2014, pp. 1–16. [43] A. Mera, C. Liu, R. Sun, E. Kirda, and L. Lu, “ {SHiFT }: Semi-hosted fuzz testing for embedded applications,” in 33rd USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 24) , 2024, pp. 5323–5340. [44] W. Li, J. Shi, F. Li, J. Lin, W. Wang, and L. Guan, “ μafl: non-intrusive feedback-driven fuzzing for microcontroller firmware,” in Proceedings of the 44th International Conference on Software Engineering , 2022, pp. 1–12. [45] C. Liu, A. Mera, E. Kirda, M. Xu, and L. Lu, “ {Co3 }: concolic co-execution for firmware,” in 33rd USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 24) , 2024, pp. 5591–5608. [46] E. Johnson, M. Bland, Y. Zhu, J. Mason, S. Checkoway, S. Savage, and K. Levchenko, “Jetset: Targeted firmware rehosting for embedded systems,” in 30th USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 21) ,2021. [47] G. Hernandez, M. Muench, D. Maier, A. Milburn, S. Park, T. Scharnowski, T. Tucker, P. Traynor, and K. Butler, “Firmwire: Trans-parent dynamic analysis for cellular baseband firmware,” in Network and Distributed Systems Security Symposium (NDSS) 2022 , 2022. 

15 [48] E. Kim, D. Kim, C. Park, I. Yun, and Y. Kim, “Basespec: Comparative analysis of baseband software and cellular specifications for l3 proto-cols.” in NDSS , 2021. [49] D. Klischies, D. Goos, D. Hirsch, A. Milburn, M. Muench, and V. Moon-samy, “Basebridge: Bridging the gap between over-the-air and emulation testing for cellular baseband firmware,” in 2025 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP) . IEEE, 2025, pp. 1101–1119. [50] Z. Chen, S. L. Thomas, and F. D. Garcia, “Metaemu: An architecture ag-nostic rehosting framework for automotive firmware,” in Proceedings of the 2022 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security , 2022, pp. 515–529. [51] A. A. Clements, L. Carpenter, W. A. Moeglein, and C. Wright, “Is your firmware real or re-hosted? a case study in re-hosting vxworks control system firmware,” in Proceedings of the 2021 NDSS Workshop on Binary Analysis Research (NDSS BAR 2021) , 2021. [52] T. Scharnowski, F. Buchmann, S. W¨ orner, and T. Holz, “A case study on fuzzing satellite firmware,” in Proceedings of the Workshop on Security of Space and Satellite Systems (SpaceSec) , 2023. [53] H. Peng and M. Payer, “ {USBFuzz }: A framework for fuzzing {USB }

drivers by device emulation,” in 29th USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 20) , 2020, pp. 2559–2575. [54] G. Hernandez, F. Fowze, D. Tian, T. Yavuz, and K. R. Butler, “Fir-musb: Vetting usb device firmware using domain informed symbolic execution,” in Proceedings of the 2017 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security , 2017, pp. 2245–2262. [55] L. Harrison, H. Vijayakumar, R. Padhye, K. Sen, and M. Grace, “{PARTEMU }: Enabling dynamic analysis of {Real-World }{ TrustZone } software using emulation,” in 29th USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 20) , 2020, pp. 789–806. [56] D. Davidson, B. Moench, T. Ristenpart, and S. Jha, “Fie on firmware: Finding vulnerabilities in embedded systems using symbolic execution,” in Presented as part of the 22nd USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 13) , 2013, pp. 463–478. [57] J. Yin, M. Li, Y. Li, Y. Yu, B. Lin, Y. Zou, Y. Liu, W. Huo, and J. Xue, “Rsfuzzer: Discovering deep smi handler vulnerabilities in uefi firmware with hybrid fuzzing,” in 2023 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP) . IEEE, 2023, pp. 2155–2169. [58] Y. Yao, W. Zhou, Y. Jia, L. Zhu, P. Liu, and Y. Zhang, “Identifying privi-lege separation vulnerabilities in iot firmware with symbolic execution,” in European Symposium on Research in Computer Security . Springer, 2019, pp. 638–657. [59] R. Tsang, D. Joseph, S. Salehi, P. Mohapatra, H. Homayoun et al. ,“{FFXE }: Dynamic control flow graph recovery for embedded firmware binaries,” in 33rd USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 24) ,2024, pp. 5573–5590. [60] H. Wen, Z. Lin, and Y. Zhang, “Firmxray: Detecting bluetooth link layer vulnerabilities from bare-metal firmware,” in Proceedings of the 2020 ACM SIGSAC conference on computer and communications security ,2020, pp. 167–180. [61] F. Bellard, “Qemu, a fast and portable dynamic translator.” in USENIX annual technical conference, FREENIX Track , vol. 41, no. 46. Cali-fornia, USA, 2005, pp. 10–55. [62] N. A. Quynh and D. H. Vu, “Unicorn: Next generation cpu emulator framework,” BlackHat USA , 2015. [63] N. S. Agency, “Ghidra,” https://ghidra-sre.org/, 2023, last accessed: 2024-11-1. [64] A. Fioraldi, D. Maier, H. Eißfeldt, and M. Heuse, “AFL++: Combining incremental steps of fuzzing research,” in 14th USENIX Workshop on Offensive Technologies (WOOT 20) . USENIX Association, Aug. 2020. [65] A. Fioraldi, D. Maier, D. Zhang, and D. Balzarotti, “LibAFL: AFramework to Build Modular and Reusable Fuzzers,” in Proceedings of the 29th ACM conference on Computer and communications security (CCS) , ser. CCS ’22. ACM, November 2022. [66] LLVM, “libFuzzer – a Library for Coverage-guided Fuzz Testing,” https: //llvm.org/docs/LibFuzzer.html, last accessed: 2025-08-31. [67] C. Aschermann, S. Schumilo, T. Blazytko, R. Gawlik, and T. Holz, “Redqueen: Fuzzing with input-to-state correspondence.” in NDSS ,vol. 19, 2019, pp. 1–15. [68] R. Helmke, E. Padilla, and N. Aschenbruck, “Mens sana in corpore sano: Sound firmware corpora for vulnerability research,” in Proceedings of the 32nd Annual Network and Distributed System Security Symposium (NDSS) . Internet Society, 2025. [69] G. Scott and M. Grassi, “rbasefind,” https://github.com/sgayou/rbasefin d, 2017, last accessed: 2025-08-01. [70] NSA, “ghidra.app.emulator,” https://ghidra.re/ghidra docs/api/ghidra/a pp/emulator/package-summary.html, last accessed: 2025-08-31. [71] RiS3-Lab, “P2IM qemu build script,” https://github.com/RiS3-Lab/p2i m/blob/bfde37ec8417a121235ae981eaa73eac45257856/qemu/build scr ipts/build-qemu.sh, 2020, gitHub repository, commit bfde37e. [72] MOBILTEX, “CorTalk RMU1-ER Test Station Remote Monitoring,” https://www.mobiltex.com/solutions/cathodic-protection-remote-monit oring/cortalk-rmu1-er-test-station-monitor/, last accessed: 2025-08-31. [73] R. Malmain, A. Fioraldi, and A. Francillon, “Libafl qemu: A library for fuzzing-oriented emulation,” in BAR 2024, Workshop on Binary Analysis Research, colocated with NDSS 2024 , 2024. [74] B. Dolan-Gavitt, P. Hulin, E. Kirda, T. Leek, A. Mambretti, W. Robert-son, F. Ulrich, and R. Whelan, “Lava: Large-scale automated vulnera-bility addition,” in 2016 IEEE symposium on security and privacy (SP) .IEEE, 2016, pp. 110–121. [75] M. Duong, M. Chesser, G. Farrelly, S. Nepal, and D. C. Ranas-inghe, “Firmrebugger: A benchmark framework for monolithic firmware fuzzers,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2601.15774 , 2026. [76] M. Schloegel, N. Bars, N. Schiller, L. Bernhard, T. Scharnowski, A. Crump, A. Ale-Ebrahim, N. Bissantz, M. Muench, and T. Holz, “Sok: Prudent evaluation practices for fuzzing,” in 2024 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP) . IEEE, 2024, pp. 1974–1993. [77] L. Granboulan, “cpu rec.py: Un outil statistique pour la reconnaissance d’architectures binaires exotiques,” in Symposium sur la S´ ecurit´ e des Technologies de l’Information et des Communications (SSTIC) , 2017. [Online]. Available: https://github.com/airbus-seclab/cpu rec/blob/mast er/doc/cpu rec sstic english.md [78] radare.org, “radare2 source code,” https://github.com/radareorg/radare2, 2023, gitHub repository. 

APPENDIX 

A. Additional Literature Scope  

> •

European Symposium on Research in Computer Security (ESORICS)  

> •

Annual Computer Security Applications Conference (AC-SAC)  

> •

ACM Asia Conference on Computer and Communica-tions Security (Asia CCS)  

> •

International Symposium on Recent Advances in Intru-sion Detection (RAID)  

> •

IEEE/ACM International Conference on Automated Soft-ware Engineering (ASE)  

> •

ACM Joint European Software Engineering Conference and Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engi-neering (ESEC/FSE)  

> •

ACM SIGSOFT International Symposium on Software Testing and Analysis (ISSTA)  

> •

International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE)  

> •

International Conference on Dependable Systems and Networks (DSN)  

> •

European Symposium on Security and Privacy (Eu-roS&P)  

> •

IEEE Transactions on Dependable and Secure Computing (TDSC)  

> •

IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics and Security (TIFS) 16 B. Dataset ISA Identification 

TABLE X: Summary of ISA identification for the collected dataset.                  

> Arch ISA Count
> ARM ARM/Thumb, little endian, 16/32 bit 4,571
> ARM/Thumb, Big endian, 32 bit 1AARCH64, Little endian, 64 bit 210 AARCH64, Big endian, 64 bit 8MIPS MIPS, Little endian, 32/64 bit 10 MIPS, Big endian, 32/64 bit 13 RISC-V RISC-V, Little endian, 32/64 bit 177 ESP32 XTensa, Little endian, 32 bit 751 XTensa, Big endian, 32 bit 43 x86 x86, Little endian, 32/64 bit 82 Total 5,866

C. MCUs and MCU Vendors of Firmware Samples Used in Previous Works 

TABLE XI: MCU and Vendor Statistics in Previous Works (fuzzing-only; 133 firmware in total)                                                                    

> Vendor MCU Model Count Vendor MCU Model Count
> STM32 STM32F103 12 Atmel SAM3X 18 STM32F429 11 SAMR21 9STM32F479 7SAM4E 3STM32L152 7SAM4S 3STM32F072 3SAM4L 1STM32F303 3SAMD21 1STM32F3 2NXP K64 7STM32F767 2LPC1549 1STM32L475 2LPC1768 1STM32F207 1LPC1837 1STM32F405 1Nordic nRF52840 9STM32F407 1nRF52832 1STM32F411 1TI CC2538 6STM32F466 1Maxim MAX32600 3STM32F4xx 1Renesas RA4W1 2STM32F769 1Silicon EFM32 3STM32L431 1Infineon CY8C63 1STM32L432 1Holtek HT32F52342 1STM32WL55 1Unknown 3

D. Vendor and Source Distribution of Our Dataset 

We identify firmware vendors using two complementary signature sources: artifact signatures provided by OTACap [25] and our keyword-based signatures. Table XII reports both the number of samples identified by each signature source and the distribution of samples across the OTACap and FirmLine source datasets. In total, 3,869 samples originate from OTACap and 702 from FirmLine, totaling 4,571 samples. “Unidentified” denotes samples for which vendor information cannot be recovered using the available signatures. TABLE XII: Firmware identification by signature and source.                                                                  

> by Signature by Source Total OTACap Sig. Keywords OTACap FirmLine Nordic 0878 689 189 878
> TI 165 15 173 7180
> STM32 053 41 12 53
> ESP 037 37 037
> Dialog 18 15 33 033
> Realtek 015 14 115
> Telink 015 6915
> Cypress 014 14 014
> NXP 05505
> Silabs 04224
> Microchip 01011
> Unidentified --2,855 481 3,336

E. Hashes of Mentioned Firmware Samples 

The hashes of the real-world samples referenced in the paper are listed in Table XIII. TABLE XIII: Hashes of the firmware samples discussed in this paper. 

No. MD5 Hash Source 

#227 0a3d1bcfbf1975c6f9251d94b5d6068c OTACAP #820 ccb629ef7798b16ce643c93c98def4da OTACAP #1179 cf7e5ffce5627d94782f775cebe37d5e OTACAP #1819 ffd04cf806f9eb938b91d2125dd0cf4f OTACAP #2691 6a2c995e4ff7de99b1666a57141edb59 OTACAP #2715 39f97e664aa557a79742d3cc396cf356 OTACAP #2797 9c69319bd19d6e70c52dbf52706c306c OTACAP #2915 7d798d66e6f6b7a83339cdc7229e25d3 OTACAP #2938 d23dcc6078f806bcf861c3774882a810 OTACAP #3349 8ac0e15548f08aa0bade6d1e39def173 OTACAP #3519 761c7650abcb516c1222115c3e60a673 OTACAP #3741 2aff89ee5b54eb5e0dc01a3afa2489f8 OTACAP #7658 98ebfc674e848b9fddf0c8e4546684b4 Firmline #11175 b410ae085ca5b9e539fa82b785becdff Firmline #12123 afb512988a3bb8c5f5c1b0d56f444ec7 Firmline #15998 2b9c07679b3afb37f44fd0aeec5af533 Firmline #18803 b00141539d039261267c6c7c0fcade7f Firmline 

F. Resource-Intensive FirmLine Failure Cases 

TABLE XIV: Representative FirmLine failure cases with high time and memory costs. 

No. File Size Runtime Memory Usage 

#125 37.73KiB 15min 40s over 193GiB #147 5.13MiB 15min 18s over 193GiB #761 5.12MiB 15min 45s over 193GiB #148 5.12MiB 15min 51s over 193GiB #1732 29.52KiB 39min 24s 160GiB #1037 270.64KiB 28min 53s 143GiB #531 11.05KiB 34min 04s 142GiB #3281 164.60KiB 28min 27s 72GiB 

We set a memory-consumption threshold of 200 GB (190.73 GiB) for each process and dynamically monitored memory usage at runtime. Once the total memory consumption of a process and all of its child processes exceeded this threshold, the process was terminated immediately. Accordingly, entries 17 reported as “over 193 GiB” in Table XIV reached this limit. We also tested memory monitoring without this threshold and found that some cases could exceed 400 GB of memory usage (e.g., case #122). 

G. Rationales of Empirical Threshold Selections 

≥10 valid functions for binary selection. The threshold is used to distinguish firmware from non-code blobs. We observed that Ghidra occasionally identifies a few spurious functions in pure data files; requiring at least 10 valid functions effectively filters these false detections. Firmware with fewer than 10 valid functions is also unlikely to be meaningful for emulation or security analysis. To verify our classification, we used the FirmLine [26] method, which employs cpu rec [77] for ISA architecture detection, followed by Radare2 [78] for verification. The results were consistent: the method identified 4,497 ARM Cortex-M binaries, all of which are included in our set of 4,571 ARM Cortex-M samples. 

10 unique instructions in first 10,000 executed instructions for base address verification in stage 1. This serves as a preliminary check for candidate base addresses. Incorrect base addresses typically fail immediately (e.g., invalid memory accesses) or enter trivial loops, resulting in very few unique in-structions. The final validation is performed in Stage 2, where unsuccessful firmware initialization further rejects incorrect configurations. 

≥10% coverage for Stage-4. The 10% threshold is a practical sampling criterion. Since Stage 4 (FirmRCA) is computation-ally expensive, we prioritized higher-coverage crashes, which are more likely to have progressed beyond initialization and are therefore more likely to be real crashes. We agree that this introduces potential bias. 

H. Comparison of Fuzzware With and Without GDMA 

In 35 test cases, GDMA identified DMA models, while results for other cases matched the original Fuzzware results. Among the cases with recognized DMA models, GDMA produced 920 additional crashes and increased coverage by only 1.09% on average. Detailed comparisons are provided in Table XV. TABLE XV: Fuzzing results for Fuzzware with and without GDMA. Only the 27 cases with recognized DMA models and observable result differences are listed.                                                                                                                  

> No. Without GDMA With GDMA #Crashes Coverage #Crashes Coverage
> #152 399 15.9% 649 15.9% #1435 07.3% 07.8% #1436 06.7% 07.1% #1437 07.0% 07.5% #1529 1,625 12.4% 1,651 12.7% #1534 1,453 12.1% 2,164 12.8% #1535 846 12.5% 1,971 12.9% #1842 052.6% 055.3% #1866 323 6.0% 456 6.1% #2454 03.2% 04.3% #2928 02.7% 03.7% #2929 282 5.0% 462 5.4% #3432 5,435 19.8% 140 18.2% #3584 215 13.7% 888 15.2% #3585 640 15.2% 884 15.3% #3610 3,323 19.2% 1,958 18.7% #3612 3,805 22.1% 3,247 22.3% #6922 22 14.7% 395 15.6% #7591 160 7.6% 234 12.9% #7675 23 5.3% 55.3% #9138 04.8% 04.8% #9668 011.7% 011.8% #11767 91 5.2% 243 6.1% #13261 149 5.3% 278 6.1% #17949 011.9% 014.0% #18324 252 7.7% 256 13.1% #18803 1,328 9.8% 5,410 16.0%

I. Mapping Tool Exceptions to General Crash and Hang Types 1) Fuzzware : 

> •

UR : UC_ERR_READ_UNMAPPED . 

> •

UW : UC_ERR_WRITE_UNMAPPED . 

> •

UF : UC_ERR_FETCH_UNMAPPED . 

> •

RV : UC_ERR_READ_PROT . 

> •

WV : UC_ERR_WRITE_PROT . 

> •

EV : UC_ERR_FETCH_PROT . 

> •

UI : UC_ERR_INSN_INVALID . 

> •

Hang : No input is consumed within the first 3,000,000 executed basic blocks.  

> •

Other : Other exceptions, such as Unknown Crash and 

INCOMPLETE CONSUMPTION .

2) Hoedur : 

> •

UR+UW+RV+(Partial)UF : Crash , including unmapped fetches in the address range [0, 0x1000).  

> •

(Partial)UF+EV : NonExecutable , excluding UF in 

Crash . 

> •

WV : RomWrite . 

> •

Hang : Hang , where the first 3,000,000 basic blocks from the start of emulation consume no input, or no input is consumed within 150,000 basic blocks after the most recent input consumption.  

> •

Other : Other exceptions, including RUNTIME_ERROR ,

FAILED_EXIT , InfiniteSleep , and Reset .

3) MultiFuzz :

18 • UR : ReadUnmapped . 

> •

UW : WriteUnmapped . 

> •

UF+EV : ExecViolation . 

> •

RV : ReadPerm . 

> •

WV : WritePerm . 

> •

UI : Syscall and UnimplementedOp . 

> •

Hang : Hang , same as Hoedur, INTERRUPT_LIMIT . 

> •

Other : Other exceptions, including InternalError ,

InvalidOpSize (invalid instruction opcode size), 

ExecUnaligned (execution at an unaligned memory address), UnknownError , InvalidInstruction ,and SelfModifyingCode .

J. Crash Counts in Minor “Other” Categories 

TABLE XVI: Crash counts in minor “Other” categories for Hoedur.       

> Crash Type #Crashes #Samples Reset 15,203 103
> Total 15,203 103

The Reset category occurs when an unhandled hardware reset is triggered by setting the VECTRESET field in the 

AIRCR register, as in §V (P12). TABLE XVII: Crash counts in minor “Other” categories for MultiFuzz.               

> Crash Type #Crashes #Samples ExecUnaligned 11
> InvalidInstruction 1,114 35
> InvalidOpSize 11
> SelfModifyingCode 379 21
> InternalError 61 13
> Total 1,556 45

The ExecUnaligned , InvalidOpSize , and 

SelfModifyingCode categories are attributed to disassembly implementation problems in MultiFuzz. The 

InvalidInstruction error arises from improper handling of mixed ARM/Thumb instructions, as discussed in §V (P12). The causes of InternalError remain unidentified. 

K. Crash and Hang De-duplication Strategies 

Fuzzware does not implement crash deduplication. Hoedur and MultiFuzz use distinct deduplication strategies tailored to specific crash types. The deduplication indicators used by Hoedur and MultiFuzz are summarized in Table XVIII and Table XIX, respectively. TABLE XVIII: Crash and hang deduplication strategy used by Hoedur.     

> Crash Type Deduplication Indicator UF /EV PC at crash site
> WV Write address leading to crash
> UR /UW /RV PC and LR at crash site

TABLE XIX: Crash and hang deduplication strategy used by MultiFuzz.      

> Crash Type Deduplication Indicator Hang Caller PC of the hang function
> UF /EV PC of the last instruction executed before the crash
> UR /UW /RV /WV PC at crash site
> Other Tool-specific exit reason

L. Detailed Fuzzing Initialization Results Across Seeds 

The same seed can cause different crash types across tools, and a single sample may crash for different reasons under different seeds. Thus, “Total” denotes the number of unique samples. TABLE XX: Seed-level initialization failures for Fuzzware.                                                   

> Type UW UR UF RV WV EV UI Hang Other Total
> 0 seed 181 332 20 115 0178 53 61 841 1 seed 183 367 48 115 0189 53 97 953 0/1 seed 203 346 42 115 0175 53 92 927 Total 208 393 49 115 0194 53 96 997

TABLE XXI: Failure counts in minor “Other” categories for Fuzzware.       

> Crash Type #Samples Unknown Crash 25
> INCOMPLETE CONSUMPTION 70
> UC ERR OK 9
> AIRCR Write Error 1
> Total 105

TABLE XXII: Seed-level initialization failures for Fuz-zware+GDMA.                                                   

> Type UW UR UF RV WV EV UI Hang Other Total
> 0 seed 181 330 21 115 0180 54 60 842 1 seed 183 361 52 115 0195 54 97 958 0/1 seed 201 336 46 116 0180 54 92 926 Total 209 388 54 116 0199 54 97 1006

TABLE XXIII: Failure counts in minor “Other” categories for Fuzzware+GDMA.       

> Crash Type #Samples Unknown Crash 25
> INCOMPLETE CONSUMPTION 71
> UC ERR OK 9
> Physical Time Exceeded 5
> Total 110

The Unknown Crash category results from memory over-lap, as discussed in §V (P5). INCOMPLETE_CONSUMPTION 

is caused by an unhandled hardware reset, as noted in §V (P12). AIRCR Write Error occurs when firmware writes an invalid value to the AIRCR register; according to the ARM architecture, the high 16 bits of AIRCR must be 0x5fa . The cause of UC_ERR_OK remains unidentified. 19 TABLE XXIV: Seed-level initialization failures for Hoedur.                                    

> Type UR+UW+RV WV UF+EV UI Hang Other Total
> 0 seed 596 15 5061 51 728 1 seed 702 13 4061 84 864 0/1 seed 763 15 4065 82 929 Total 805 17 5065 102 983

TABLE XXV: Failure counts in minor “Other” categories for Hoedur.      

> Crash Type #Samples Reset 76
> FAILED EXIT 134 25
> RUNTIME ERROR 1
> Total 102

The FAILED_EXIT_134 category results from memory overlap, as discussed in §V (P5). Reset is caused by an unhandled hardware reset, as noted in §V (P12). The 

RUNTIME_ERROR case is caused by a configuration-file pars-ing error. TABLE XXVI: Seed-level initialization failures for MultiFuzz.                                              

> Type UW UR UF+EV RV WV UI Hang Other Total
> 0 seed 203 342 18 114 16 62 67 723 1 seed 207 406 44 115 17 62 100 852 0/1 seed 240 452 34 117 17 62 105 928 Total 246 483 46 117 17 62 123 969

TABLE XXVII: Failure counts in minor “Other” categories for MultiFuzz.        

> Crash Type #Samples SelfModifyingCode 16
> InternalError 4
> UnknownError 1
> No seed results 25
> INCOMPLETE CONSUMPTION 77
> Total 123

The No seed results category arises from memory overlap, as explained in §V (P5). The 

INCOMPLETE_CONSUMPTION error results from an unhandled hardware reset, as noted in §V (P12). 

SelfModifyingCode is attributed to disassembly issues. The causes of InternalError and UnknownError 

remain unidentified. TABLE XXVIII: Seed-level initialization failures for Aid-Fuzzer.                          

> Type Crash Hang Model Failure Other Total
> 0 seed 1,546 769 120 25 2,460 1 seed 1,546 769 119 25 2,459 0/1 seed 1,546 769 119 25 2,459 Total 1,546 769 120 25 2,460

AidFuzzer crashes primarily stem from incomplete memory mapping of the system peripheral region, as noted in §V (P5). Hangs and model failures are mainly attributed to AidFuzzer’s IRQ modeling issues. 

M. Heuristic Attribution of False Crashes and Hangs 

We use the following heuristics to estimate the false crashes and hangs associated with P4–P9 and P12 during fuzzing. These criteria capture highly suspicious signatures observed when the corresponding problems occur; they are not exact causal classifiers. Therefore, a matching signature does not guarantee that the problem is the true cause, while failures without the signature may still result from it. Accordingly, some problems cannot be quantified reliably, and the reported problem ratios may not sum to 100% in Appendix N. We use these heuristics only to approximate the prevalence of the identified problems. 

P4: Unsupported ISA Instructions. Crashes resulting from Unsupported-instruction ( UI ) can be directly identified through tool-specific exception types. For instance, Fuzzware indicates this with UnimplementedOp , whereas MultiFuzz reports either Syscall or UnimplementedOp exceptions. 

P5: Inaccurate Memory Layout. We associate a crash with P5 when it accesses an address that is unmapped by the tool but falls within a valid ARM memory region that may legitimately be used by firmware. We consider the following regions: (0x10000000-0x1FFFFFFF ), external-bus regions (0x60000000-0xDFFFFFFF ), and Code/Flash regions 0x08000000-0x0FFFFFFF and 

0x00000100-0x07FFFFFF , excluding ranges already occupied by the loaded firmware image. 

P6: Absolute Speed Gap. P6 manifests primarily as hangs. However, hangs may also arise from inaccurate peripheral responses (P8) or incomplete peripheral semantics (P9). Since these causes cannot be reliably distinguished from the hang outcome alone, we do not estimate the proportion of hangs attributable specifically to P6. 

P7: Incorrect Interrupt Timing. We associate a false crash with P7 when the crash occurs in interrupt context and involves an uninitialized-pointer access. Interrupt context is identified using tool-specific runtime state, such as active_irq >0 in MultiFuzz or err_in_interrupt > 0 in GDMA-enabled executions. We consider the resulting invalid-read (RV ) failures caused by uninitialized pointers. 

P8/P9: Inaccurate Peripheral Responses and Incom-plete Peripheral Modeling. For false crashes, we use the crash address as a heuristic indicator. We asso-ciate crashes with P8/P9 when the faulting memory ac-cess or instruction fetch targets (i) the peripheral re-gion ( 0x40000000-0x5FFFFFFF ), (ii) the private/system-peripheral region ( 0xE0000000-0xFFFFFFFF ), or (iii) an otherwise unmapped region ( 0x20100000-0x3FFFFFFF ). The last region is included because inaccurate peripheral values may themselves be interpreted as addresses or address-related metadata, as in DMA descriptors or the pointer-like peripheral-register semantics described in P9, causing the eventual fault to occur outside the peripheral address space. False hangs caused by P8 and P9 cannot be reliably distinguished from other hang causes and are therefore not quantitatively attributed. 20 P12: Implementation Limitations. Implementation-specific failures are identified using tool-specific exception signatures corresponding to known implementation defects. For example, MultiFuzz failures caused by unsupported or incorrect AR-M/Thumb mode transitions appear as ReadPerm exceptions with the UnknownError::READ_PROT subtype. 

N. Details of false-crash counts and problem categories across evaluated tools in stage 3. 

Crash-type legend. Unmapped Access denotes a read ( UR ), write ( UW ), or instruction fetch ( UF ) from an address outside all memory regions defined in Table III; Permission Viola-tion denotes a read ( RV ), write ( WV ), or execution ( EV )at an address lacking the corresponding permission under the configured memory-access rules; Unsupported Instruction 

(UI ) denotes execution of an instruction unsupported by the emulator. Mappings from tool-specific crash types to these categories are provided in Appendix I. Breakdowns of the other crash types are provided in Appendix J. TABLE XXIX: False-crash counts and root-cause categories for GDMA (Fuzzware).                           

> Crash Type #Crashes #Samples Problems (Ratio%) UR 152,680 374 P5 (82%) P8/9 (4%)
> UW 22,767 101 P5 (84%) P8/9 (16%)
> RV 61 7P8/9 (100%)
> UF 14,673 68 P5 (14%) P8/9 (9%)
> EV 2,677 40 P5 (68%) P8/9 (4%)
> WV 6,602 31 P7 (85%) P8/9 (13%) P5 (2%)
> UI 12,315 74 P4 (100%)
> Total 211,775 521

TABLE XXX: False-crash counts and root-cause categories for MultiFuzz.                              

> Crash Type #Crashes #Samples Problems (Ratio%) UR 1,565 511 P5 (51%) P7 (33%) P8/9 (10%)
> UW 680 125 P7 (42%) P5 (35%) P8/9 (15%)
> RV 2,861 120 P12 (1%)
> UF + EV 57,465 177 P5 (64%) P8/9 (32%) P7 (2%)
> WV 344 42 P7 (64%) P5 (16%) P8/9 (10%)
> UI 1,549 64 P4 (100%)
> Hang 2,987 1,301 P6
> Others 442 30 P7 (77%) P5 (20%)
> Total 67,893 1,488

TABLE XXXI: False-crash counts and root-cause categories for Hoedur.                  

> Crash Type #Crashes #Samples Problems (Ratio%) UR+UW+RV+UF+EV 14,749 590 P5 (36%)
> WV 471 29 P5 (92%)
> Hang 27,987 1,065 P6
> Others 15,203 103 -
> Total 58,410 1,219

21