Title: A Predictive Neural Network Architecture for Early Detection of Low-Rate Cyberattacks

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2606.18771v1

Published Time: Thu, 18 Jun 2026 00:35:45 GMT

Number of Pages: 20

Markdown Content:
# A Predictive Neural Network Architecture for Early Detection of Low-Rate Cyberattacks ⋆

Mert Nakıp a, ∗

> aInstitute of Theoretical and Applied Informatics, Polish Academy of Sciences, Baltycka 5, Gliwice, 44–100, Poland

Abstract 

Low-Rate Denial of Service (LDoS) attacks pose a significant challenge to IoT networks due to their sub-tle and prolonged nature, often evading traditional intrusion detection systems. This paper presents IDQS (Intrusion Detection via QoS Prediction), a lightweight and proactive framework for early LDoS attack detec-tion. IDQS integrates two new key components: (i) RTP-QoS, a Recurrent Trend Predictive Neural Network that learns and forecasts future Quality of Service (QoS) based on historical tra ffi c patterns, and (ii) PDM, a Pairwise Decision Model that evaluates discrepancies between predicted and actual QoS to identify poten-tial attacks. Evaluated on the public SDN-SlowRate-DDoS and CIC-IDS2017 datasets, IDQS respectively achieves over 79% and 91% detection accuracy across most attack scenarios with high recall and low false negatives, while maintaining an end-to-end inference time of just 0.28 seconds. The results demonstrate the eff ectiveness and e ffi ciency of IDQS for real-time deployment in resource-constrained IoT environments. 

Keywords: Quality of Service, Prediction, Trend Predictive Neural Network (rTPNN), Internet of Things (IoT), Low-Rate Denial of Service (LDoS) 

1. Introduction 

The Internet of Things (IoT) is rapidly evolv-ing with an increasing number of device uses and application areas. IoT devices and the networks they create –especially when integrated with Arti-ficial Intelligence (AI) algorithms– are frequently used to automate systems in various application ar-eas [1, 2, 3]. However, these devices and networks, often deployed at large scale [4], not only contain nu-merous vulnerabilities [5] but are also easily a ff ected by collision and congestion [6, 7]. Therefore, they become a direct target of cyberattacks and a gateway for cybercriminals to reach critical infrastructures. Denial of Service (DoS) and Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attacks are two of the most com-mon cyberattacks posing a significant threat to IoT.   

> ⋆This preprint is published at Knowledge-Based Systems, DOI: 10.1016 /j.knosys.2026.115995 .
> ∗Corresponding author.
> Email address: mnakip@iitis.pl (Mert Nakıp)

Indeed, in the second quarter of 2022, DDoS attacks annually occurred 109% more in the network layer and 72% more in the application layer [8]. These attacks are often straightforward and implemented with the aim of disrupting the normal services of the targeted IoT system. To this end, they usually send a large number of requests in a fairly short pe-riod of time, so much so that the target system can-not cope with these requests and is overwhelmed [9]. Although successful DoS or DDoS attacks have dev-astating impacts and serious consequences, state-of-the-art security measures [10, 11, 12] can detect and mitigate such attacks successfully (but still raising various performance-related issues). On the other hand, cyberthreats are also evolv-ing and becoming more complex along with cyber-security methods. For the security of IoT networks, which are often prone to network performance loss, e.g. Quality of Service (QoS) degradation, Low-Rate DoS (LDoS) attacks, characterized by their sub-tle and sophisticated nature, pose a significant chal-

> arXiv:2606.18771v1 [cs.CR] 17 Jun 2026

lenge to traditional detection methods. These attacks often involve the exploitation of application vulner-abilities or the manipulation of network tra ffi c at a level that evades conventional detection mechanisms [13]. Due to their low resource requirements with low and slow characteristics, these attacks can easily be launched and remain undetected for a long time [14]. Since traces of LDoS attacks cannot be sharply distinguished from normal network tra ffi c, detect-ing and preventing these attacks is very challeng-ing. In practice, existing detection methods predomi-nantly rely on static classification or fixed threshold-ing, which fail to account for the inherent stochas-ticity of IoT network tra ffi c. This creates a criti-cal gap, as such systems are often unable to di ff er-entiate between a deliberate LDoS attack and legit-imate network fluctuations or transient congestion. Consequently, there is a practical need for an adap-tive mechanism that can model the expected dynamic state of the network to isolate anomalous signatures in real-time. Therefore, the development of robust and adaptive detection techniques tailored specifi-cally for low-rate attacks is essential. This paper presents a system-level holistic de-sign named Intrusion Detection via QoS Prediction (IDQS) for identifying the almost invisible footprint of LDoS attacks. While traditional systems rely on volume-based spikes, IDQS is a multi-stage predic-tive pipeline designed to detect the subtle degrada-tion that stays under the radar of absolute-threshold models. The proposed IDQS is comprised of two main components: Recurrent Trend Predictive QoS Predictor (RTP-QoS) to accurately forecast the net-work QoS and Pairwise Decision Model (PDM) to eff ectively identify malicious tra ffi c. By shifting the detection approach from a simple classification task to a predictive discrepancy analysis, the framework accounts for slow temporal drifts in QoS. Accord-ingly, the key contributions of this paper are as fol-lows: 

• System-Level Multi-Stage Pipeline : The pro-posed IDQS fills the gap between existing static classification models and dynamic network be-havior via a three-stage pipeline: (i) extraction of relevant tra ffi c features, (ii) forecasting future QoS via RTP-QoS, and (iii) identifying attack patterns via a predictive discrepancy analysis in the PDM. 

• Specialized QoS-Predictive Architecture : We develop the RTP-QoS model, which introduces a new QoS prediction layer for the rTPNN ar-chitecture. While the rTPNN layer is used for trend extraction, this specific synchronization enables the system to learn and anticipate fu-ture QoS patterns based on expected normal be-havior. The internal structure of RTP-QoS pre-dicts upcoming tra ffi c measurements and trends, while the output layer incorporates a recurrent error correction feature to predict QoS. 

• Early and Accurate Detection via PDM as a Comparator Layer : The PDM developed in this paper acts as a specialized comparator layer. It is designed to first capture the relationships between the predicted and actual QoS pairs and to process them together with the forecast QoS to identify signatures of low-rate attacks that evade traditional detection. 

• Practical E ffi ciency for IoT Gateways : We demonstrate that IDQS is a significant system-level contribution for resource-constrained en-vironments. With an average inference time of 0.28 seconds, the framework provides a proac-tive defense mechanism capable of running on low-power IoT gateways in real-time. The performance of the proposed IDQS is evalu-ated using public “SDN-SlowRate-DDoS” [15] and “CIC-IDS2017” [16]. The results reveal that IDQS achieves an accuracy greater than 0.79 in the ma-jority of experiments conducted during 5-fold cross-validation. In addition, the RTP-QoS and PDM com-ponents of IDQS are compared against the well-known neural networks, namely Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM), Multilayer Perceptron (MLP), Nonlinear Perceptron (NP), and the Feed Forward Network. The results demonstrate that IDQS signifi-cantly outperforms the neural networks compared as it achieves superior prediction accuracy (N-SMAPE 

< 1%) and more reliable detection accuracy. Further-more, the computational e ffi ciency of IDQS ensures it can be e ff ectively deployed in real-world IoT in-frastructures without incurring significant overhead. 2The remainder of this paper is organized as fol-lows: Section 3 details IDQS respectively presenting the tra ffi c metrics, the RTP-QoS model, and the PDM for detection of LDoS attack. Section 4 evaluates the performance of the IDQS on a public dataset and dis-cusses the experimental results. Section 5 summarize the paper and provides insights into the future impli-cations of the proposed methodology. 

2. Related Works 

2.1. High-Rate Intrusion Detection 

Earlier research and recent works are mostly fo-cused on detecting attacks with high tra ffi c rate and intense impact on the system resources in a short period of time, such as Botnet attacks. For in-stance, in Reference [17], Bovenzi et al. applied Deep Learning (DL) models –specifically Autoen-coders (AEs) and KitNET– for unsupervised early anomaly detection within IoT datasets, namely IoT-23 [18] and Kitsune [19]. The findings presented in [17] highlighted the feasibility of early detection of IoT network attacks, demonstrating that the anal-ysis of just the first four packets yielded the most eff ective detection performance. References [20] and [21] introduced a lightweight Intrusion Detec-tion System (IDS) for detecting Mirai Botnet attacks, which analyzes network tra ffi c using three metrics designed to quantify tra ffi c density from multiple perspectives. The IDS was trained in an unsuper-vised manner, both o ffl ine [20] and in a quasi-online incremental fashion [21], utilizing only normal traf-fic to construct an auto-associative memory. In or-der to detect Botnet attacks in the N-BaIoT dataset, Reference [22] employed Classification and Regres-sion Trees (CART) in conjunction with feature selec-tion, while Sriram et al.[23] conducted a comparative analysis involving seven distinct Machine Learning (ML) algorithms, including Naive Bayes (NB), K-Nearest Neighbors (KNN), and Support Vector Ma-chines (SVM). In addition, Reference [24] proposed a Botnet detection framework consisting of two se-quential phases: the first phase focuses on training the selected ML model and performing feature selec-tion, and the second phase executes the actual attack detection. Within this architecture, the authors uti-lized both MLP and NB, assessing their performance on the N-BaIoT dataset. In recent work [25], in or-der to enable fully online learning of IDS parameters, a novel Self-Supervised Intrusion Detection (SSID) framework was proposed. SSID continuously learns from incoming network tra ffi c packets and evaluates the trustworthiness of the IDS by assessing both its generalization capability and its accuracy on the traf-fic data used for learning. In Reference [26], the vulnerabilities of SDN-based SCADA systems were addressed by introduc-ing a Recurrent Neural Network (RNN) model utiliz-ing parallel Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) and Gated Recurrent Unit (GRU) architectures. Their ap-proach, enhanced by transfer learning and SVM for feature classification, demonstrating the e ffi cacy of deep recurrent structures in protecting critical indus-trial infrastructure from service disruptions. Build-ing upon these architectural advancements, Refer-ence [27] proposed a hybrid AI-powered detection module for Software Defined-based Vehicular Ad Hoc Networks (SD-VANETs), combining 1D Con-volutional Neural Networks (1D-CNN) and Decision Trees to identify DDoS tra ffi c with high precision. Furthermore, Reference [28] developed an Intel-ligent Zero-day Attack Detection System using Un-supervised Machine Learning (ZdAD-UML) to en-hance IoT network security by detecting previously unknown intrusions without requiring labeled data. The system combines Hippopotamus Optimization Algorithm for feature selection, Enhanced K-means Clustering-based Weighted Crayfish Auto Encoder for feature extraction, and Pu ff erfish Optimization-based threshold for anomaly detection. In contrast to the works which prioritize high-volumetric tra ffi c signatures and rapid resource ex-haustion, this paper focuses on detecting low-rate cy-berattacks that subtly degrade system performance. While high-rate detection frameworks are optimized for binary connectivity alarms and massive packet flows, the proposed IDQS framework addresses the stealthier challenge of identifying anomalies that re-main hidden within seemingly normal tra ffi c vol-umes. 

2.2. Low-Rate Intrusion Detection 

Some other research have focused on low-rate at-tacks: In early research [29], a mathematical model 3for the LDoS attacks against application servers was developed, which facilitates performance evaluation through its correlation with attack configuration pa-rameters and network-victim dynamics. This model was validated by comparing performance metrics with those obtained through simulation and used to make recommendation for developing defense tech-niques against the Low-Rate DoS attack. In order to detect LDoS attack flows, Reference [30] exploited the changes in network tra ffi c char-acteristics using Multi-Fractal Detrended Fluctuation Analysis (MF-DFA) algorithm. This algorithm was tested via simulations and on a test-bed. Refer-ence [31] developed self-adaptive density-based spa-tial clustering of applications with noise (SADB-SCAN). This algorithm identifies clusters in multi-density datasets, enabling the grouping of network tra ffi c based on low-rate DoS attack characteristics. Subsequently, cosine similarity is employed to as-certain the presence of low-rate DoS attacks within these tra ffi c groups. Reference [32] also devel-oped an LDoS detection algorithm that analyzes not packet tra ffi c but spectral features of tra ffi c over time windows. Moreover, Reference [33] focused on de-tecting Slowloris attacks in resource constrained IoT networks. To this end, it developed a lightweight intrusion detection framework that captures attack footprints analyzing network events in two stages. In order to identify LDoS attacks, the most recent research utilized Machine Learning (ML), especially deep learning, models: Reference [34] proposed multi-feature fusion approach utilizing K-Nearest Neighbor (KNN) classifier and operating through three features related to the router queue and traf-fic fluctuations. The multi-feature fusion approach was evaluated on a test-bed. Reference [35] uti-lized a machine learning algorithm to analyse traf-fic packages and identify signatures of attack with low performance overhead. In [36], a hybrid neu-ral network architecture, combining 1-Dimensional Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) and Gated Recurrent Unit, was developed. This hybrid archi-tecture was tested on HTTP tra ffi c through exper-imental work achieving slightly above 98% accu-racy. Reference [37, 38] focused on LDoS attacks targetting Software Defined Network (SDN) of IoT devices and developed FeedForward–Convolutional Neural Network (FFCNN) based anomaly detection scheme. The performance of FFCNN was evaluated on “CIC DoS 2017” dataset and compared against well-known ML models, including Multi-Layer Per-ceptron (MLP), Support Vector Machine (SVM), and Random Forest (RF). While the existing low-rate detection models often rely on static feature fusion or reactive classification of current tra ffi c patterns, this paper distinguishes it-self by focusing on the temporal evolution of net-work performance. In contrast with traditional LDoS detection that treats each time window as an indepen-dent classification task, our approach utilizes predic-tive modeling to establish a dynamic baseline of ex-pected network behavior, identifying attacks through the discrepancy between forecast and observed per-formance metrics. 

2.3. Predictive Intrusion Detection 

While traditional Intrusion Detection Systems (IDS) focus on identifying attacks as they occur, pre-dictive intelligence leverages historical data and real-time tra ffi c analysis to forecast and mitigate threats before they compromise system integrity [39]. Re-cent research highlights the e ffi ciency of learning al-gorithms in identifying zero-day attacks and insider threats by uncovering patterns that escape signature-based systems [39]. Several studies have introduced architectural innovations to enhance this predictive accuracy. For instance, to address the challenge of imbalanced datasets in IoT networks, Reference [40] proposed a hierarchical Deep Learning (DL) ap-proach utilizing a two-step prediction process where a primary model identifies potential attack tra ffi c and a secondary model specifies the exact attack type. In the context of critical sectors like banking, Ref-erence [41] demonstrated the superiority of ensem-ble models over individual algorithms by integrating diverse architectures, including Deep Neural Net-works, Random Forest, and Gradient Boosting, to predict threats across heterogeneous datasets. Sim-ilarly, addressing the vulnerability of critical net-work links, Reference [42] introduced LinkDam, a framework that tracks and predicts adversary inter-est to identify potential victim links before an attack reaches its peak, enabling early activation of load balancing. Furthermore, for Industry 4.0 environ-4ments, Reference [43] developed a predictive frame-work that prioritizes threats based on the specific na-ture of the attack within Wireless Sensor Networks (WSNs), using a combination of Decision Trees, MLP, and Autoencoders. These advancements underscore the e ffi cacy of predictive intelligence in modern cybersecurity. This paper di ff erentiates from the existing work focused on predictive intrusion detection by focusing on the temporal trends of QoS metrics. By transitioning from simple attack classification to a predictive dis-crepancy analysis, where the system forecasts ex-pected normal behavior and flags deviations as mali-cious footprints, the proposed IDQS framework pro-vides a lightweight yet robust solution tailored for the specific dynamics of Low-Rate DoS attacks. 

2.4. QoS-Aware Security Modeling 

Recent advancements in network security research highlight a reciprocal link between network perfor-mance metrics and the identification of low-rate at-tacks. Unlike volumetric DDoS attacks that aim for total service disruption, LDoS attacks specifi-cally target QoS by exploiting protocol-level adap-tive mechanisms, such as TCP congestion control and the three-way handshake of the MQTT proto-col [44, 45]. These low and slow maneuvers are strategically designed to diminish throughput and in-crease latency while remaining below the detection thresholds of traditional volume-based security sys-tems [46]. In Reference [47] and [48], empirical evidence from SDN and LTE cellular contexts suggests that the degradation of performance parameters, specifi-cally packet loss, jitter, and end-to-end delay, serves as a primary indicator of an ongoing LDoS or slow-rate incursion. Furthermore, contemporary mitiga-tion frameworks such as PeakSAX and ADMS uti-lize real-time monitoring of these QoS fluctuations to distinguish between legitimate network conges-tion and malicious performance degradation [46]. By evaluating detection latency and accuracy as perfor-mance benchmarks, Reference [49] emphasizes that maintaining high QoS is a vital defensive posture against sophisticated, low-rate security threats. References [50] and [51] examine scenarios where QoS metrics function as the primary victims in stealthy attacks such as Reduction of Quality (RoQ) and DeGrading of Service (DGoS). These studies il-lustrate how attackers prioritize subtle performance erosion over total service cessation, utilizing link manipulation to evade detection by network tomog-raphy [51, 52]. For instance, Reference [53] analyzes how these maneuvers manifest in power communica-tion networks (PCNs) as increased transmission de-lays and packet loss, which undermine the reliabil-ity of critical infrastructure without triggering binary connectivity alarms. Consequently, Reference [54] repurposed statisti-cal quality management tools, such as multivariate control charts, to detect abnormal tra ffi c patterns in cyber-physical systems by treating security breaches as performance defects. In specialized domains like the Internet of Medical Things (IoMT) and vehicular networks, References [55] and [56] identify timing-related observables as critical indicators of opera-tional integrity and security status. Furthermore, Reference [57] and [58] illustrate this trend by lever-aging Signal-to-Noise Ratio (SNR), data rates, and power spectrum analysis within the NeMo-IoT and LSTM-based prediction models to identify devia-tions from established baseline behaviors. Despite this growing recognition, a significant re-search gap remains in the transition from passive observation to proactive, predictive security model-ing. Majority of existing frameworks rely on static threshold-based detection or reactive anomaly clas-sification, which struggle to di ff erentiate between le-gitimate temporal drifts and the subtle signatures of LDoS attacks. This paper addresses this gap by in-troducing Intrusion Detection via QoS Prediction, in short IDQS, a system-level holistic design that shifts the paradigm from simple classification to pre-dictive discrepancy analysis. In contrast with the traditional absolute-threshold models, the proposed IDQS utilizes a specialized Recurrent Trend Predic-tive QoS Predictor to anticipate expected normal be-havior, coupled with a Pairwise Decision Model that acts as a comparator layer to identify malicious foot-prints through subtle forecasting errors. By model-ing the underlying temporal trends of QoS metrics, this approach provides a robust defense mechanism tailored for the resource-constrained environments of IoT gateways, where early and accurate detection is 5critical for maintaining infrastructure resilience. 

3. Holistic System for Intrusion Detection via Quality-of-Service Prediction 

This section presents the proposed holistic system for Intrusion Detection via QoS Prediction, called IDQS, which is displayed in Figure 1. The IDQS identifies the advanced Low-Rate DoS (LDoS) at-tacks via the Pairwise Decision Model (PDM) based on the QoS predicted by an enhanced rTPNN archi-tecture, called Recurrent Trend Predictive QoS Pre-dictor (RTP-QoS). Due to the design of the PDM architecture and the internal structure of RTP-QoS, which predicts the upcoming trends and values of tra ffi c features, it is expected to detect Low-Rate DDoS attacks in their very early stages. The proposed IDQS operates over the tra ffi c flows. For each tra ffi c flow, M predefined features are ex-tracted to support prediction and detection by the RTP-QoS and PDM models, where the value of each feature m ∈ { 1, . . . , M} is denoted by xkm. After each tra ffi c flow, indexed by k, is completed, the RTP-QoS neural network architecture predicts the QoS for the future tra ffi c flow k + τ, denoted by ˆ qk+τ, based on the collection of current and the past network traf-fic flow features, i.e. {(xkm, xk−1 

> m

)}m∈{ 1,..., M}. Then, the predicted QoS ˆ qk+τ is fed into the PDM architecture for detecting a possible LDoS attack e ff ecting or that is predicted to e ff ect the network performance. One should note that throughput (in bytes per second) is the QoS metric that is sought to be predicted in this paper, whereas the proposed methodology does not depend on any particular selection of the QoS met-ric. 

3.1. Network Tra ffi c Features 

In order to obtain a lightweight and practically ap-plicable system, the features extracted from the net-work tra ffi c are defined as 

• Average number of packets transmitted per sec-ond, 

• Average number of bytes per packet, 

• Average number of flows per second, and 

• Average life of a tra ffi c flow. These features are selected to make computations easily, protect privacy of the tra ffi c content, and pro-vide information to forecast future QoS. In addition to these features, within the proposed RTP-QoS neu-ral network architecture, the past measurements of QoS are also used. Subsequently, each tra ffi c feature is normalized by dividing its value by the maximum value of that feature across all experiments consid-ered. While the normalization is e ff ective for short-ening the learning time of the IDQS components, it is not a mandatory operation and does not a ff ect the model performance. One should note that the features considered in this paper are not part of the proposed IDQS and does not eff ect its design. Therefore, based on the properties of the applications or datasets for which IDQS shall be tested, the sets of features can be extended, short-ened, or redefined. 

3.2. Recurrent Trend Predictive QoS Predictor (RTP-QoS) 

Within the proposed IDQS, first, the network QoS, ˆqk+τ, for the upcoming tra ffi c flow k + τ is predicted via the Recurrent Trend Predictive QoS Predictor, namely RTP-QoS, model. As shown in Figure 1, this model is comprised of two main parts: rTPNN layer and QoS Predictor. 

3.2.1. rTPNN Layer 

The rTPNN layer within RTP-QoS is a critically modified version of the characteristic layer of the original rTPNN [59]. Although the original rTPNN extracts the current trend and level of the sequen-tial input data, our modified version of the rTPNN layer now predicts the upcoming trend and upcoming value of each tra ffi c feature. In this way, the RTP-QoS model, which contains the modified rTPNN layer, foresees the upcoming tra ffi c and capture the relationship between tra ffi c trend and QoS predic-tion. To this end, the modified rTPNN layer is com-prised of the “Level Predictor” and the “Trend Pre-dictor” modules, each of which consists of a recur-rent neuron. The objectives of these modules are re-spectively predicting the value and trend of the asso-ciated tra ffi c feature for the future flow. 6RTP-QoS      

> Predicted QoS Network Traffic
> Metrics Trend Predictor
> Level Predictor
> rTPNN Layer QoS Predictor
> Network Traffic
> Analyzer
> Pairwise Decision Model
> Attack
> No Attack
> Predicted QoS
> Actual QoS

Figure 1: Structure of the proposed Intrusion Detection via QoS Prediction System (IDQS) 

At each tra ffi c flow k, the Level Predictor module of the modified rTPNN layer predicts the upcoming value of feature m as ˆxk+τ 

> m

= βkm,1 xkm + βkm,2 xk−τ 

> m

+ βkm,3 ˆxkm, (1) where ˆ xk+τ 

> m

denotes the predicted value of feature m

for flow k + τ, and {βm,1, β m,2, β m,3} is the set of learn-able parameters of the recurrent neuron forming the Level Predictor module. The Trend Predictor module of the modified rTPNN layer predicts the trend of feature m for tra ffi cflow k + τ as ˆtk+τ 

> m

= αkm,1

 xkm − xk−τ

> m

+αkm,2

  ˆxk+τ 

> m

− xkm

+αkm,3 ˆtkm, (2) where ˆ tk+τ 

> m

denotes the predicted value of the trend of feature m for tra ffi c flow k+τ, and αm,1, αm,2, and αm,3

are the learnable parameters of the recurrent neuron forming the Trend Predictor module. In (2), in addi-tion to the actual feature values taken for consecutive flows k − τ and k, the feature value ˆ xk+τ 

> m

predicted by the Level Predictor module and the trend ˆ tkm predicted earlier for the flow k are also used to provide a suc-cessful prediction of the upcoming trend. Finally, the level and trend values predicted for each of the M tra ffi c features for the flow k + τ are concatenated into a vector ˆ yk+τ 

> 0

:ˆyk+τ 

> 0

= h ˆxk+τ 

> m

, ˆtk+τ 

> m

: m ∈ { 1, . . . , M}i, (3) which is the input of the QoS Predictor part of the RTP-QoS model. 73.2.2. QoS Predictor 

The next part of the RTP-QoS is QoS Predictor, which is –as shown in Figure 1– comprised of three successive fully connected layers and a recurrent out-put neuron. While the fully connected layers process and merge the predicted trends and levels of all traf-fic features, the recurrent output neuron provides the final prediction of the network QoS. The fully connected layers are feed-forward and comprised of neurons with nonlinear activation func-tions. Hence, each layer l ∈ { 1, . . . , L} simply oper-ates as follows to process the output of the previous layer: ˆyk+τ 

> l

← ψ  Wkl ˆyk+τ

> l−1

, (4) where yk+τ 

> l

is the output vector of fully connected layer l, Wkl is the input weight matrix of layer l cal-culated after the completion of flow k, and ψ(·) is an element-wise activation function. Subsequently, the output of the fully connected layers, denoted by the vector ˆ yk+τ 

> L

, which is the pro-cessed version of the trend and level predictions, is used by the recurrent output neuron to predict the network QoS, denoted by ˆ qk+τ, for the upcoming traf-fic flow k+τ. In addition to the ˆ yk+τ 

> L

vector, the output neuron process the earlier prediction and observation of the network QoS for the current flow k. These in-puts, one of which is the neuron’s own output, serve as error-correcting feedback for the QoS Predictor, helping to improve prediction accuracy over time. Accordingly, the recurrent output neuron calculates the QoS prediction as ˆqk+τ = Ψ  γk 

> 1

ˆyk+τ + γk 

> 2

qk + γk 

> 3

ˆqk+τ, (5) where γk

> 1

, γk 

> 2

and γk 

> 3

are the learnable parameters, i.e. connection weights of the output neuron, and Ψ(·) is an element-wise activation function. 

3.3. Pairwise Decision Model for Low-Rate DoS Detection 

After the transmission of the tra ffi c flow k + τ is completed, the proposed IDQS decides if the flow carries a signature of low-rate attack or the QoS predictions provide an insight towards experienc-ing the impact of such attack. To this end, we de-velop the Pairwise Decision Model (PDM), which is a lightweight neural network architecture. The PDM is designed to capture the pairwise relationships be-tween the predicted and the actual QoS values ob-served in the past and combine these relationships with the future forecast of QoS to identify signature of a low-rate attack on the tra ffi c. The PDM architecture proposed has two sets of inputs: 

• The first input is the set of the actual-forecast QoS pairs obtained in the current and the past timeslots: {(qk−t, ˆqk−t)}t∈{ 0,..., T −1}.

• The other input is the set of forecast QoS values for the upcoming T time slots: { ˆqk+t}t∈{ 1,..., T }

As shown in Figure 1, the first layer is designed to process the each pair of the actual and the fore-cast QoS. To this end, this layer, namely pairwise layer, is comprised of T + 1 neurons, each of which, indexed by t ∈ { 0, . . . , T − 1} associated to the cor-responding pair of inputs, ie. ( qk−t, ˆqk−t). The main purpose of each neuron t in the pairwise layer is to learn which relationship between the actual and the forecast QoS is the most import for detecting a low-rate attack. Accordingly, the output of neuron t in the pairwise layer is calculated as 

z0 

> t

= ϕ(ω1 

> t

qk−t + ω2 

> t

ˆqk−t), (6) where ω1 

> t

and ω2 

> t

are the connection weights respec-tively for the inputs of qk−t and ˆ qk−t. In addition, ϕ(·)is a nonlinear activation function. Then, the collection of neuron outputs at the pair-wise layer constructs the output of this layer: 

Z0 = z00, z01, . . . , z0 

> T−1

 (7) Subsequently, the output of the pairwise layer is con-catenated with the second set of inputs, ie. the set of forecast QoS values { ˆqk+t}t∈{ 1,..., T }, in order to process the past and the current pairwise QoS relations with the forecast QoS for the future tra ffi c. The resulting vector is processed by the first fully connected layer of PDM: 

Z1 = Φ   Ω1 [Z0, ˆqk+1, . . . , ˆqk+T ]⊺ , (8) where Ω1 is the input weight matrix for the first fully connected layer of PDM, and Φ(·) is a nonlinear acti-vation function. After the first fully connected layer, 8for each of the following fully connected layers, the output is calculated as 

Zh = Φ   Ωh Zh−1 , h ∈ { 2, . . . , H − 1}. (9) The output layer of the PDM architecture is a soft-max layer, which is comprised of two neurons cor-responding to “No Attack” and “Attack” cases, and whose output is 

ZH = so f tmax   Ωh ZH−1 . (10) The resulting decision on the attack is taken as 

dk = arg max  ZH , (11) where the element indexed by 0 refers to the case “No Attack”, and the element indexed by 1 refers to the case “Attack”. 

4. Results 

This section now presents the performance evalu-ation results for predicting QoS and detecting LDoS. The performance of the proposed RTP-QoS is com-prehensively evaluated for QoS prediction and com-pared against the well-known ML models. The proposed architecture is finally tested for detecting LDoS attacks. This architecture is also evaluated un-der two decision models, namely the proposed Pair-wise Decision Model (PDM) and Fully Connected Decision Model (FCDM). The experimental work and the performance eval-uation in this paper are conducted using an on-line dataset, called “SDN-SlowRate-DDoS”, [15]. This dataset contains both normal and attack tra ffi crecordings collected through experiments with vary-ing parameters of attack duration, attack rate, and number of attackers. In this paper, the numerical re-sults are presented for the experiments lasting 4000 seconds as those can provide the su ffi ciently long data for both training test. 

4.1. QoS Prediction Performance 

The QoS prediction performance of the RTP-QoS model is evaluated through the experiment that con-tains only the normal tra ffi c. To this end, the exper-iment data is divided into training and test sets of size 80% and 20%, respectively. In order to protect the time series characteristics of the data, the training and test sets are extracted in timely order. 

4.1.1. Analyses of Varying Time Step Predictions 

First, the impact of the time step τ on the QoS prediction performance of RTP-QoS is analysed. To this end, the RTP-QoS model is trained and tested distinctly for each value of τ in {10 s, 50 s, 100 s, 150 s, 200 s, 250 s, 300 s, 350 s, 400 s }. This anal-ysis provides a valuable insight towards the robust-ness of RTP-QoS against the selection of the value of τ and also enables us to set the τ for the rest of the performance analyses. The QoS prediction performance of the RTP-QoS model is given in Table 1 with respect to Mean Squared Error (MSE), Mean Absolute Error (MAE), and Normalized Symmetric Mean Absolute Error (N-SMAPE). Note that the Symmetric Mean Abso-lute Error (SMAPE) is normalized dividing by 2, so that N-SMAPE has value in range 0%-100%. The results in this table reveal that the QoS prediction performance of the proposed architecture is consid-erably stable and robust against the selection of τ as it achieves less than 2% error in N-SMAPE for all val-ues of τ tested. Meanwhile, the performance com-parison across di ff erent values of τ remains consis-tent for all metrics.  

> Table 1: The performance of the RTP-QoS model for QoS pre-diction under normal network tra ffi c for varying values of τ

TIME STEP Test Performance MSE (×10 −3)MAE (×10 −3) N-SMAPE 

10 s 1.51 33.88 1.83% 50 s 0.51 16.44 0.87% 100 s 0.76 20.96 1.11% 150 s 0.57 17.99 0.95% 200 s 0.45 16.18 0.85% 250 s 0.95 26.32 1.39% 300 s 0.49 17.13 0.89% 350 s 0.65 20.98 1.11% 400 s 0.82 23.45 1.24% The fluctuating performance of RTP-QoS across di ff erent values of τ does not lead to a definitive con-clusion; however, certain values of τ, in particular 50 s, 150 s, 200 s, and 300 s, stand out with N-SMAPE of less than 1%. Based on this analysis, we 9set τ = 50 for the rest of the performance evalua-tion in this section. Although τ = 200 s provides the best prediction, it results in four times greater data loss during analysis (corresponding to a longer cold-start in real-life implementations) compared to 

τ = 50 s. In particular, for τ = 200 s, the first 200 seconds –approximately 5%– of the data are used solely for providing model inputs, while the last 200 seconds are dedicated exclusively to generating pre-diction outputs. Consequently, around 10% of the data is e ff ectively lost when evaluating samples. This is only 2 .5% for τ = 50 s.

4.1.2. Predicting QoS During Normal Tra ffi c

The actual and predicted QoS values for τ = 50 s

are presented in Figure 2. These results demon-strate that the RTP-QoS e ff ectively learns from the training set. Moreover, the predicted QoS values closely match the actual values, accurately capturing the trends in the test set. Comparable greater error is observed only at the peaks of the actual values, al-though the predicted QoS still reflects the trend and general behaviour of the actual QoS. 

> Figure 2: QoS predicted by the modified rTPNN and the actual QoS under normal network tra ffi c

Furthermore, Table 2 presents the average predic-tion error of RTP-QoS and its comparison against the well known Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM), Multilayer Perceptron (MLP), and Nonlinear Percep-tron (NP) models for training and test sets. The results in Table 2 show that RTP-QoS achieves the lowest prediction error among all mod-els in terms of MSE, MAE and N-SMAPE, on both training and test sets. The RTP-QoS model attains an N-SMAPE value of 0 .39 on the training set and 0 .87 

> Table 2: Comparison of the RTP-QoS model against the well-known benchmark models for QoS prediction under normal network tra ffi c

Training Performance Models MSE (×10 −3)MAE (×10 −3) N-SMAPE 

RTP-QoS 0.016 2.29 0.39% LSTM 0.025 3.44 0.47% MLP 0.032 4.09 0.56% NP 0.084 7.22 0.86% 

Test Performance Models MSE (×10 −3)MAE (×10 −3) N-SMAPE 

RTP-QoS 0.51 16.44 0.87% LSTM 3.463 52.75 2.88% MLP 4.43 58.99 3.23% NP 4.22 61.05 3.36% on the test set. While all evaluated models achieve training errors below 1% N-SMAPE, RTP-QoS is the only model to sustain prediction accuracy with an N-SMAPE below 1% on the test set, demonstrating per-formance at least three times superior to that of other evaluated models. This superior performance on the test set (N-SMAPE < 1%) is critical for the operational viabil-ity of RTP-QoS. By establishing such a high-fidelity baseline for normal tra ffi c, IDQS ensures that even minor deviations caused by stealthy LDoS maneu-vers can be statistically isolated. Unlike traditional models where a 3% error might mask a low-rate at-tack, the precision of RTP-QoS allows the system to treat the forecast-observed discrepancy as a clean signal for anomaly detection rather than model noise. 

4.2. Predicting QoS During LDoS Attack 

In order to analyse the behaviour of RTP-QoS dur-ing low-rate attacks and observe the possible im-pact of QoS prediction in attack detection, we now present the prediction results of RTP-QoS during the LDoS attacks available in the dataset. Figure 3 displays the predictions obtained by the RTP-QoS model for the LDoS attack with one vic-tim and one attacker. The prediction results are taken 10 Figure 3: The predicted and the actual QoS values under LDoS attacks with a single attacker creating 25 connections per second (conn /s), 30 conn /s, 50 conn /s, and 100 conn /s, respectively, from top to bottom. 

for attack rates corresponding to 25, 30, 50, and 100 connections per second. The results in this figure show that the predictions of RTP-QoS are success-fully aligned with the actual QoS for the normal traf-fic until the LDoS attack starts. In addition, the re-sults in Figure 3 show that the actual QoS drops be-low the predicted QoS over time after the attack be-gins. One should note that the results obtained for di ff erent attack scenarios provided almost the same insights. 

> Figure 4: Boxplot of N-SMAPE calculated for three di ff erent phases of network tra ffi c and presented among all experiments files containing an attack

Moreover, Figure 4 indicates the relationship be-tween prediction error (measured in N-SMAPE) and the initiation of a low-rate attack. For the vast ma-jority of experimental data, we observe a significant increase in prediction error after the initiation of an attack. We also observe that the error continues to increase for some time after the attack stops. On the other hand, for the case of “One Attacker One Victim (100 conn /s)”, the N-SMAPE remains almost the same through all phases of tra ffi c. The errors measured for that experiment are 4 .65%, 4 .76%, and 4.03% respectively for “Before Attack”, “During At-tack”, and “After Attack” phases. The increasing divergence between predicted and actual QoS observed in Figure 3 represents the ad-versarial gap. Since the RTP-QoS model is an ideal-ized representation of healthy network behavior, this gap serves as a quantifiable metric of the progres-sive impact of the attack. The persistence of high error even after the attack concludes (as seen in Fig-ure 4) highlights the slow-recovery nature of LDoS attacks, which exhaust resources in a way that lingers beyond the active packet flow, a signature that IDQS 11 Table 3: Performance of the Proposed Approach on Test Experiments During 5-Fold CV 

Experiment Accuracy Precision Recall F1-Score 

One Attacker One Victim (25 conn /s) 0.85 0.82 0.96 0.88 One Attacker One Victim (30 conn /s) 0.59 0.67 0.57 0.62 One Attacker One Victim (50 conn /s) 0.91 0.86 1.00 0.92 One Attacker One Victim (100 conn /s) 0.80 0.79 0.88 0.83 Four Attackers One Victim (10 conn /s - 15 conn /s) 0.79 0.73 1.00 0.85 Four Attackers One Victim (20 conn /s - 30 conn /s) 0.83 0.77 1.00 0.87 Four Attackers Two Victims (10 conn /s - 15 conn /s) 0.84 0.88 0.83 0.86 Four Attackers Two Victims (20 conn /s - 30 conn /s) 0.81 0.82 0.86 0.84 Three Attackers Three Victims (30 conn /s) 0.58 0.58 1.00 0.73 is uniquely equipped to track. Based on the results shown in Figure 3 and Fig-ure 4 collectively, relying solely on prediction error for LDoS detection may lead to false alarms and mis-detections. In particular, accurately identifying the initiation and termination of attacks is expected to be highly challenging due to the slow and gradual nature of their impact. It can also be inferred (es-pecially from Figure 3) that achieving a su ffi ciently large error margin to e ff ectively distinguish mali-cious or abnormal activities from the normal traf-fic requires a considerably long detection interval – if indeed feasible– after the initiation of the attack. Therefore, smart and proactive approaches, e.g. Pair-wise Decision Model presented in this paper, are expected to perform better than straightforward ap-proaches. 

4.3. Low-Rate Attack Detection via PDM 

Throughout the evaluation of the low-rate attack detection performance of our proposed architecture, we perform 5-fold cross-validation (CV). Table 3 displays the average performance of our approach over the CV folds with respect to Accuracy, Preci-sion, Recall, and F1-Score. The results in Table 3 show that the proposed ap-proach achieves an accuracy of over 0.79 for the ma-jority (7 out of 9) attack cases. For these cases, our approach has achieved a considerably high F1-score of over 0.83. In addition, Recall remains high and Precision exhibits variability, suggesting that the model tends to minimize false negatives but encoun-ters challenges in consistently minimizing false pos-itives. On the other hand, the proposed approach can achieve only 0.59 and 0.58 accuracy for the cases of “One Attacker One Victim (30 conn /s)” and “Three Attackers Three Victims”. This is observed to be due to the lack of training data similar to the test case within the fold of CV. In order to validate this ob-servation, for the cases of “One Attacker One Victim (30 conn /s)”, we compare the performance under CV against that when the model is trained using only the data for the cases with One Attacker (excluding the 30 conn /s case). On the other hand, the proposed approach achieves relatively low accuracy, in particular 0.59 and 0.58, for the cases of “One Attacker One Victim (30 conn /s)” and “Three Attackers Three Victims”, re-spectively. This is observed to be due to the lack of training data similar to the test case within the CV folds where these cases are used for testing. In order to validate this observation, we examine the performance for the “One Attacker One Victim (30 conn /s)” case by comparing the results under CV with those obtained when the model is trained ex-12 Figure 6: The boxplot of the performances of the PDM and FFN over the CV folds for each of Accuracy, Precision, Recall, and F1 Score 

> Figure 5: Performance of the proposed approach for the cases of “One Attacker One Victim (30 conn /s)” under two di ff erent training cases

clusively on data from other “One Attacker” cases, excluding the 30 conn /s instance. Figure 5 displays the results of the examination. The results in this fig-ure show that training the model with other “One At-tacker” cases significantly improves the performance in terms of both detecting the normal and the attack tra ffi c. 

4.3.1. Comparison Against the Benchmark 

We further compare the performance of the pro-posed Pairwise Decision Model (PDM) against the well-known Feed-Forward Network (FFN). In or-der to present the detailed performance analysis and comparison for PDM and FFN, Figure 6 displays the boxplot of the performances of the PDM and FFN over the CV folds for each metric. The results in this figure show that the proposed pairwise structure outperforms the fully connected network across all metrics. For these metrics, one may see that the interquartile range of the PDM’s performance is considerably narrow, indicating that the PDM provides robust and reliable detection across di ff erent training and test splits in CV. In greater detail, the results displayed in Figure 6 exhibits the following comparisons for each evalua-tion metric: 

• Accuracy : The PDM demonstrates higher me-dian accuracy with lower variability compared to FFN, which exhibits a wider spread and the minimum accuracy of 0 .4. This indicates that PDM consistently performs better across folds. 

• Precision : The PDM has higher precision than FFN for all folds of CV, indicating its superi-ority in correctly identifying positive instances with minimal false positives. 

• Recall : Although the median recall of FFN is 13 Figure 7: The actual QoS values and corresponding detection results under LDoS attacks with a single attacker creating 25 connec-tions per second (conn /s), 30 conn /s, 50 conn /s, and 100 conn /s, respectively, from top to bottom. 

slightly higher than that of PDM, FFN su ff ers from significant fluctuation. Indeed, the best re-call that FFN obtained is 1 while the worst is 0.06. On the other hand, recall of the proposed PDM is above 0 .84 for all CV folds, except one outlier with recall of 0 .57. This underscores PDM’s ability to better identify true positives, making less false negatives, which is critical in LDoS detection. 

• F1 Score : The F1 Score, being the harmonic mean of precision and recall, again highlights the trustable and robust performance of the PDM, which has a very narrow interquartile range and the worst outlier with F1 Score of 0.62. On the other hand, wider range and lower values of FFN again highlight its inconsistent detection capability. The cumulative results show that the proposed PDM consistently outperforms FFN, across all evaluation metrics, with significantly more stable and reliable performance across cross-validation folds. Furthermore, we present the actual decisions made by the proposed approach for “One Attacker One Victim” cases in Figure 7. The results in this figure show that the proposed approach successfully cap-tures the LDoS attack tra ffi c for three of the four cases. For the cases with high accuracy, the proposed approach captures the changes before the labeled in-terval of attack duration. On the other hand, Figure 7 (top-right) shows that the low accuracy obtained for the case “One Attacker One Victim (30 conn /s)” is because the propose approach captures the impact of attack considerably late. In particular, for this case, the attack is detected almost 1000 seconds after it started. The performance gap between PDM and FFN clar-ifies the architectural necessity of the pairwise layer. While a standard FFN attempts to classify tra ffi cbased on static snapshots, the PDM operates as a di ff erential sensor. It focuses on the relationship between expectation (prediction) and reality (mea-surement). This allows it to ignore global tra ffi csurges that a ff ect both values equally while trigger-ing alarms on the subtle asymmetric drifts caused by protocol-level exploitation. 14 4.4. Performance on the CIC-IDS2017 Dataset 

In order to further validate the generalization capa-bility and robust performance of the proposed IDQS, we conduct an additional evaluation using the well-known CIC-IDS2017 dataset [16]. Since IDQS is specifically designed for the continuous time-series analysis of low-rate attacks, our experiments focus exclusively on the tra ffi c recorded on Wednesday. This specific subset is selected as it is the only part of the dataset that contains representative LDoS scenar-ios, namely DoS Slowloris (between 9:47 and 10:10 a.m.) and DoS Slowhttptest (between 10:14 and 10:35 a.m.), which align with the target attack pro-files of our framework. The evaluation is performed with a time step of τ = 50, consistent with the earlier analysis in this paper. 

> Figure 8: Performance of the proposed approach on the CIC-IDS2017 Wednesday dataset for low-rate attack detection

Figure 8 presents the comparative performance of the proposed IDQS (utilizing RTP-QoS and PDM) against the benchmark Feed-Forward Net-work (FFN). FFN used as a benchmark is comprised of five hidden layers and a single output layer, where the hidden layers respectively contain 128, 64, 32, 16, and 8 neurons. The results displayed in this figure demonstrate that the proposed architecture significantly outper-forms the FFN across all evaluated metrics. Specif-ically, IDQS achieves an accuracy of 91%, which is a significant improvement over the 74% accuracy of the benchmark model. Furthermore, the high recall of 0.92 underscores the e ff ectiveness of the proposed system in identifying subtle LDoS signatures, while maintaining a robust F1 Score of 0.88. These find-ings confirm that by shifting from static classifica-tion to predictive discrepancy analysis, IDQS main-tains high detection reliability even when deployed on heterogeneous datasets containing varied low-rate attack vectors. 

4.5. Training and Inference Time 

In last, we analyze the computation time required for the components, namely the RTP-QoS and the PDM models, of the proposed IDQS architecture. To this end, Figure 9 presents the results obtained for the training and inference times for these components. 

> Figure 9: Training (top) and inference (bottom) times of the RTP-QoS and PDM models, which are the components of the proposed IDQS architecture

The measurements in Figure 9 (top) show that the training of RTP-QoS takes approximately 360 sec-onds, and that of PDM takes about 87 seconds on av-erage. The inference time measurements in Figure 9 (bottom) show that the QoS prediction for one sam-ple takes 0.08 seconds on average while a decision about LDoS for a single sample takes 0.2 seconds on average. That is, the total computation time of IDQS for a single decision is 0 .28 seconds on aver-age and its standard deviation is considerably small. This computational e ffi ciency transforms IDQS from a passive monitor into a proactive defense mecha-nism. In a real-world IoT gateway deployment, this 15 allows for the activation of mitigation protocols (e.g., dynamic rate limiting) well before the LDoS attack can reach its cumulative exhaustion peak. 

5. Conclusion 

This paper has proposed a new holistic system for Intrusion Detection via QoS Prediction, in short IDQS. The proposed IDQS is comprised of Recur-rent Trend Predictive QoS Predictor (RTP-QoS) and Pairwise Decision Model (PDM), which are operat-ing sequentially. The RTP-QoS model combines the modified version of rTPNN and the QoS prediction layer. PDM consists of a pairwise layer and fully connected layers. The pairwise layer of the PDM learns the relationships between the predicted and ac-tual QoS pairs while the fully connected layers iden-tify the signatures of LDoS attacks by processing the pairwise relationships combined with the predicted QoS. The performance of the proposed IDQS and its components were evaluated using the publicly avail-able “SDN-SlowRate-DDoS” dataset [15]. Evalua-tion results indicate that IDQS achieves over 0.79 accuracy for majority of text experiments in this dataset through 5-fold cross-validation. Moreover, the performance of the RTP-QoS model was com-pared to the performances of Long Short-Term Mem-ory (LSTM), Multilayer Perceptron (MLP), Nonlin-ear Perceptron (NP). The results showed that IDQS consistently outperforms these models, achieving considerably lower prediction error of below 1% N-SMAPE. The PDM developed was also bench-marked against Feed-Forward Network (FFN). The results indicated that PDM consistently outperforms FFN with more stable and reliable attack detection. Furthermore, IDQS demonstrates computational ef-ficiency, requiring only 0 .28 seconds on average for complete QoS prediction and attack classifica-tion, highlighting its suitability for real-time use in resource-limited environments such as IoT systems. Despite its high accuracy, the IDQS framework and this paper has some limitations that define its current operational scope. A primary constraint of this work is the scarcity of high-quality, publicly available datasets specifically curated for Low-Rate DoS attacks in IoT environments. While the SDN-SlowRate-DDoS and CIC-IDS2017 datasets provide essential benchmarks, the limited variety of docu-mented low-rate attack vectors restricts the exposure of model to the full spectrum of evolving stealthy threats. In addition, the model relies on a cold-start period determined by the time step τ; for instance, with τ = 50 s, the system requires an initial win-dow of historical data before it can generate its first reliable prediction. Furthermore, while the PDM is robust, extreme legitimate network congestion, such as a flash crowd event, could potentially mimic the QoS degradation signature of an LDoS attack, lead-ing to transient false positives. Finally, the current iteration assumes a clean training phase; if the base-line data is unknowingly poisoned with attack traces, the sensitivity of the model to subtle deviations could be diminished. Future work shall first focus on evaluating the pro-posed IDQS in a real-life IoT testbed for analyzing not only the QoS prediction and attack detection per-formances but also impact of the IDQS on device(s) hosting it. Such evaluation is crucial also for col-lecting a high-quality real-life low-rate attack data. The proposed IDQS shall also be extended to per-form multi-class attack detection, aiming to include both slow-rate and intense, such as DoS or DDoS, attacks. In addition, the measurements presented in Section 4.5 revealed that RTP-QoS and PDM train-ing took 360 s and 87 s respectively, indicating that IDQS is for further integration with adaptive learn-ing. 

Acknowledgments 

This work is funded by the project FENG.01.01-IP.01-A0GV /24, “Advanced Application Mainte-nance and Diagnostics Tool for IT Startups,”. Mert Nakıp gratefully acknowledges that his work is supported by the Foundation for Polish Science (FNP) under agreement no. START 057.2025. 

References 

[1] F. Al-Turjman, Artificial intelligence in IoT, Vol. 13, Springer, 2019. [2] E. Baccour, N. Mhaisen, A. A. Abdel-latif, A. Erbad, A. Mohamed, M. Hamdi, 16 M. Guizani, Pervasive ai for iot applications: A survey on resource-e ffi cient distributed arti-ficial intelligence, IEEE Communications Sur-veys & Tutorials 24 (4) (2022) 2366–2418. [3] K. G. Manoharan, J. A. Nehru, S. Balasubra-manian, Artificial intelligence and iot, Springer 10 (2021) 978–981. [4] Ericsson, Ericsson Mobility Report (Nov. 2019). [link]. URL https://www.ericsson.com/en/ mobi-lity-report 

[5] Hp study reveals 70 percent of Internet of Things devices vulnerable to attack. URL https://www.hp.com/us-en/ hp-news/press-release.html?id= 1744676 

[6] E. Gelenbe, M. Nakıp, T. Czachórski, Improv-ing massive access to IoT gateways, Perfor-mance Evaluation 157 (2022) 102308. [7] V. Rodoplu, M. Nakıp, D. T. Eliiyi, C. Güzeli¸ s, A multiscale algorithm for joint forecasting– scheduling to solve the massive access problem of iot, IEEE Internet of Things Journal 7 (9) (2020) 8572–8589. [8] O. Yoachimik, DDoS attack trends for 2022 Q2, accessed: 2023-03-09 (June 2022). URL https://blog.cloudflare.com/ ddos-attack-trends-for-2022-q2/ 

[9] ExtraHop, Denial of Service attack: definition, examples, and prevention, accessed: 2023-03-09 (January 2022). URL https://www.extrahop.com/ re-sources/attacks/dos/ 

[10] M. Nakip, E. Gelenbe, Mirai botnet attack detection with auto-associative dense random neural network, in: 2021 IEEE Global Commu-nications Conference (GLOBECOM), IEEE, 2021, pp. 01–06. [11] M. Nasereddin, M. Nakıp, E. Gelenbe, Mea-surement based evaluation and mitigation of flood attacks on a lan test-bed, in: 2023 IEEE 48th Conference on Local Computer Net-works (LCN), 2023, pp. 1–4. doi:10.1109/ LCN58197.2023.10223358 .[12] E. Kiner, T. April, Google mitigated the largest DDoS attack to date, peaking above 398 million rps, accessed: 2023-11-20 (October 2023). URL https://cloud.google.com/ blog/products/identity-security/ google-cloud-mitigated-largest-ddos-attack-

[13] W. Zhijun, L. Wenjing, L. Liang, Y. Meng, Low-rate dos attacks, detection, defense, and challenges: A survey, IEEE Access 8 (2020) 43920–43943. doi:10.1109/ACCESS.2020. 2976609 .[14] What is a low and slow attack?, accessed: 2024-03-02. URL https://www.cloudflare. com/en-gb/learning/ddos/ ddos-low-and-slow-attack/ 

[15] N. M. Yungaicela-Naula, C. Vargas-Rosales, J. A. Pérez-Díaz, E. Jacob, C. Martinez-Cagnazzo, Sdn-slowrate-ddos dataset (2023). 

doi:10.21227/amrt-8y98 .URL https://dx.doi.org/10.21227/ amrt-8y98 

[16] I. Sharafaldin, A. H. Lashkari, A. A. Ghorbani, et al., Toward generating a new intrusion de-tection dataset and intrusion tra ffi c characteri-zation., ICISSp 1 (2018) 108–116. [17] G. Bovenzi, G. Aceto, D. Ciuonzo, A. Montieri, V. Persico, A. Pescapé, Network anomaly de-tection methods in IoT environments via deep learning: A fair comparison of performance and robustness, Computers & Security 128 (2023) 103167. [18] S. Garcia, A. Parmisano, M. J. Erquiaga, IoT-23: A labeled dataset with malicious and be-nign IoT network tra ffi c (May 2021). doi: 10.5281/zenodo.4743746 .URL https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo. 4743746 

17 [19] Kitsune Network Attack Dataset (August 2020). URL https://www.kaggle.com/ymirsky/ network-attack-dataset-kitsune 

[20] M. Nakip, E. Gelenbe, Mirai botnet attack detection with auto-associative dense random neural network, in: 2021 IEEE Global Commu-nications Conference (GLOBECOM), IEEE, 2021, pp. 01–06. [21] M. Nakip, E. Gelenbe, Botnet attack detection with incremental online learning, in: Security in Computer and Information Sciences: Second International Symposium, EuroCybersec 2021, Nice, France, October 25–26, 2021, Revised Selected Papers, Springer, 2022, pp. 51–60. [22] C. S. Htwe, Y. M. Thant, M. M. S. Thwin, Botnets attack detection using machine learn-ing approach for IoT environment, in: Journal of Physics: Conference Series, Vol. 1646, IOP Publishing, 2020, p. 012101. [23] S. Sriram, R. Vinayakumar, M. Alazab, K. So-man, Network flow based IoT botnet attack detection using deep learning, in: IEEE IN-FOCOM 2020-IEEE Conference on Computer Communications Workshops (INFOCOM WK-SHPS), IEEE, 2020, pp. 189–194. [24] Y. N. Soe, Y. Feng, P. I. Santosa, R. Hartanto, K. Sakurai, Machine learning-based IoT-botnet attack detection with sequential architecture, Sensors 20 (16) (2020) 4372. [25] M. Nakıp, E. Gelenbe, Online self-supervised deep learning for intrusion detection systems, IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics and Security (2024). [26] H. Polat, M. Türko˘ glu, O. Polat, A. ¸ Sengür, A novel approach for accurate detection of the ddos attacks in sdn-based scada systems based on deep recurrent neural networks, Expert Sys-tems with Applications 197 (2022) 116748. [27] O. Polat, S. Oyucu, M. Türko˘ glu, H. Polat, A. Aksoz, F. Yardımcı, Hybrid ai-powered real-time distributed denial of service detection and tra ffi c monitoring for software-defined-based vehicular ad hoc networks: A new paradigm for securing intelligent transportation networks, Applied Sciences 14 (22) (2024) 10501. [28] A. Jain, R. Bagoria, P. Arora, An intelligent zero-day attack detection system using unsu-pervised machine learning for enhancing cy-ber security, Knowledge-Based Systems (2025) 113833. [29] G. Macia-Fernandez, J. E. Diaz-Verdejo, P. Garcia-Teodoro, Mathematical model for low-rate dos attacks against application servers, IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics and Security 4 (3) (2009) 519–529. doi:10. 1109/TIFS.2009.2024719 .[30] Z. Wu, L. Zhang, M. Yue, Low-rate dos attacks detection based on network multifractal, IEEE Transactions on Dependable and Secure Com-puting 13 (5) (2016) 559–567. doi:10.1109/ TDSC.2015.2443807 .[31] D. Tang, S. Zhang, J. Chen, X. Wang, The detection of low-rate dos attacks using the sadbscan algorithm, Information Sciences 565 (2021) 229–247. [32] M. Aiello, E. Cambiaso, M. Mongelli, G. Pa-paleo, An on-line intrusion detection approach to identify low-rate dos attacks, in: 2014 In-ternational Carnahan Conference on Security Technology (ICCST), 2014, pp. 1–6. doi: 10.1109/CCST.2014.6987039 .[33] A. Reed, L. S. Dooley, S. K. Mostefaoui, A reliable real-time slow dos detection frame-work for resource-constrained iot networks, in: 2021 IEEE Global Communications Confer-ence (GLOBECOM), 2021, pp. 1–6. doi: 10.1109/GLOBECOM46510.2021.9685612 .[34] L. Liu, H. Wang, Z. Wu, M. Yue, The detec-tion method of low-rate dos attack based on multi-feature fusion, Digital Communications and Networks 6 (4) (2020) 504–513. [35] H. Cheng, J. Liu, T. Xu, B. Ren, J. Mao, W. Zhang, Machine learning based low-rate 18 ddos attack detection for sdn enabled iot net-works, International Journal of Sensor Net-works 34 (1) (2020) 56–69. [36] C. Xu, J. Shen, X. Du, Low-rate dos attack detection method based on hybrid deep neural networks, Journal of Information Security and Applications 60 (2021) 102879. [37] H. S. Ilango, M. Ma, R. Su, Low rate dos at-tack detection in iot - sdn using deep learning, in: 2021 IEEE International Conferences on Internet of Things (iThings) and IEEE Green Computing & Communications (GreenCom) and IEEE Cyber, Physical & Social Comput-ing (CPSCom) and IEEE Smart Data (Smart-Data) and IEEE Congress on Cybermatics (Cy-bermatics), 2021, pp. 115–120. [38] H. S. Ilango, M. Ma, R. Su, A feedforward– convolutional neural network to detect low-rate dos in iot, Engineering Applications of Artifi-cial Intelligence 114 (2022) 105059. [39] S. Vengathattil, S. M. Sha ffi , Advanced network security through predictive intelli-gence: Machine learning approaches for proac-tive threat detection—an experimental study, Methodology 2 (3). [40] S. E. Maoudj, A. Belghiat, A deep learning-based approach with two-step minority classes prediction for intrusion detection in internet of things networks, Knowledge-Based Systems 312 (2025) 113143. [41] S. S. Akhi, F. Shakil, S. K. Dey, M. I. Tusher, F. Kamruzzaman, S. S. Jamee, S. A. Tisha, N. Rahman, Enhancing banking cybersecurity: An ensemble-based predictive machine learn-ing approach, Am. J. Eng. Technol. 7 (03) (2025) 88–97. [42] Z. Huang, X. Huang, K. Xue, J. Han, L. Chen, Q. Sun, J. Lu, Defending against link-flooding attacks with adversary interest prediction and grouped online load balancing, IEEE Transac-tions on Networking 33 (3) (2025) 1056–1069. [43] F. Al-Quayed, Z. Ahmad, M. Humayun, A sit-uation based predictive approach for cyberse-curity intrusion detection and prevention us-ing machine learning and deep learning algo-rithms in wireless sensor networks of industry 4.0, Ieee Access 12 (2024) 34800–34819. [44] V. D. M. Rios, P. R. Inácio, D. Magoni, M. M. Freire, Detection and mitigation of low-rate denial-of-service attacks: A survey, IEEE Ac-cess 10 (2022) 76648–76668. [45] V. Vedula, P. Lama, R. V. Boppana, L. A. Trejo, On the detection of low-rate denial of service attacks at transport and application layers, Elec-tronics 10 (17) (2021) 2105. [46] D. Tang, X. Wang, Y. Yan, D. Zhang, H. Zhao, Adms: An online attack detection and mitiga-tion system for ldos attacks via sdn, Computer Communications 181 (2022) 454–471. [47] M. Hajimaghsoodi, R. Jalili, Rad: A statis-tical mechanism based on behavioral analysis for ddos attack countermeasure, IEEE Transac-tions on Information Forensics and Security 17 (2022) 2732–2745. [48] M. Çakmak, The impact of denial-of-service attacks and queue management algorithms on cellular networks, Journal of Intelligent Sys-tems: Theory and Applications 7 (1) (2024) 1– 13. [49] D. V. Hernandez, Y.-K. Lai, H. T. Ignatius, Real-time ddos detection in high-speed net-works: A deep learning approach with multi-variate time series, Electronics 14 (13) (2025) 2673. [50] V. de Miranda Rios, Detection of stealthy dis-tributed denial of service attacks using artifi-cial intelligence methods, Ph.D. thesis, Univer-sidade da Beira Interior (2025). [51] C.-C. Chiu, T. He, Stealthy dgos attack: de-grading of service under the watch of network tomography, IEEE /ACM Transactions on Net-working 29 (3) (2021) 1294–1307. 19 [52] D. Yousef, Unveiling the stealthy threat: Low-rate denial of service (ldos) attacks, in: Key Is-sues in Network Protocols and Security, Inte-chOpen, 2024. [53] Y. Wu, Y. Ru, Z. Lin, C. Liu, T. Xue, X. Zhao, J. Chen, Research on cyber attacks and de-fensive measures of power communication net-work, IEEE internet of things journal 10 (9) (2022) 7613–7635. [54] F. Moreira de Souza Berretta, P. C. Oprime, J. E. Sordan, Cyberattacks and the risk to pro-duction and service systems–an analysis from the perspective of quality management, The TQM Journal (2025). [55] T. A. Nguyen, D. Min, E. Choi, J.-W. Lee, De-pendability and security quantification of an in-ternet of medical things infrastructure based on cloud-fog-edge continuum for healthcare moni-toring using hierarchical models, IEEE Internet of Things Journal 8 (21) (2021) 15704–15748. [56] G. Baldini, Detection of cybersecurity spoofing attacks in vehicular networks with recurrence quantification analysis, Computer Communica-tions 191 (2022) 486–499. [57] N. Yakin, M. Zhitkov, A. Chernikov, P. Pe-pelyaev, Security threats and service degrada-tion detection in lorawan networks, in: 2021 Ural Symposium on Biomedical Engineering, Radioelectronics and Information Technology (USBEREIT), IEEE, 2021, pp. 0455–0458. [58] A. Sawas, H. E. Farag, Real-time detection of stealthy iot-based cyber-attacks on power distribution systems: A novel anomaly pre-diction approach, Electric Power Systems Re-search 223 (2023) 109496. [59] M. Nakip, C. Güzeli¸ s, O. Yildiz, Recur-rent trend predictive neural network for multi-sensor fire detection, IEEE Access 9 (2021) 84204–84216. doi:10.1109/ACCESS.2021. 3087736 .20