Title: What's Your NIC Whispering? Network Threat Behavior Recognition via NIC Electromagnetic Side-Channel Leakage

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2608.22941v1

Published Time: Tue, 25 Aug 2026 01:46:06 GMT

Number of Pages: 17

Markdown Content:
# What’s Your NIC Whispering? Network Threat Behavior Recognition via NIC Electromagnetic Side-Channel Leakage 

Hongchao Wang ∗, Linrui Li ∗, Yunkai Zou †, Zhenduo Hou †, Yilin Zhang ∗, Haoyang Pu ∗, Wen Chen ∗, Jierui Chen ‡∗ Sichuan University wanghc@stu.scu.edu.cn, rLarry@stu.scu.edu.cn, zhangyilin3@stu.scu.edu.cn, puhaoyang78@stu.scu.edu.cn, wenchen@scu.edu.cn 

† Nankai University zouyunkai@nankai.edu.cn, joehou13@nankai.edu.cn 

‡ Institute of Information Engineering, Chinese Academy of Sciences jeffy353866@gmail.com 

Abstract —Conventional network threat detection primarily relies on packet-level, flow-level, or host-level telemetry. This paper investigates a different observation surface: unintended electromagnetic (EM) emissions generated by network interface card (NIC) activity, and asks whether such physical leakage contains sufficiently structured information for network threat-behavior recognition. We present NICWhisper, which externally captures NIC EM emissions, transforms raw measurements into time–frequency representations, and recognizes network behaviors without inspecting packet contents or host-side run-time states. Rather than competing with traffic-based detec-tion, NICWhisper exploits the physical manifestation of traffic-driven NIC activity, whose timing, rate, concurrency, and burst organization naturally shape the measured EM leakage. We construct a NIC EM dataset covering active benign workloads and seven representative threat behaviors under diverse execu-tion conditions, and systematically evaluate signal dependence, execution variation, measurement perturbation, and cross-device transfer. NICWhisper achieves 80.67% Macro-F1 across eight behavior classes, while further experiments show that the ob-served behavior-related information extends beyond simple signal magnitude and remains partially transferable across execution conditions and NIC hardware. These results establish NIC EM leakage as a complementary physical observation source for network security monitoring when direct access to conventional traffic or host telemetry is limited or undesirable. 

I. I NTRODUCTION 

Network intrusion detection and defense systems are a core component of modern computing security. Existing systems mainly rely on traffic inspection, host logs, and endpoint monitoring agents [1]–[5] to identify malicious network ac-tivities and provide rich security context. However, these defensive components are increasingly targeted by attackers and may themselves become potential entry points or objects of evasion [6], [7]. Moreover, on some closed, mission-critical, legacy, or resource-constrained devices, deploying continuous traffic inspection or host-side monitoring may consume additional computing, memory, and I/O resources and consequently affect normal system operation. These prac-tical limitations motivate the exploration of an observation 

Fig. 1. Overview of NICWhisper for network-behavior recognition using externally captured NIC electromagnetic emissions. 

source that is independent of the monitored software stack. In this work, we investigate whether the electromagnetic side channel of the network interface card (NIC) can serve as a complementary mechanism for network threat detection by capturing the unintended EM emissions produced during NIC operation. As illustrated in Fig. 1, a probe placed near the target NIC captures its unintended EM emissions, which are analyzed on an independent acquisition host. NICWhisper uses only this physical observation and does not inspect packets or host-side runtime states. Although the NIC provides an intuitive physical interface between network activities and electromagnetic emissions, whether such leakage contains sufficient information for distin-guishing different network behaviors remains unclear. Unlike conventional network telemetry, where packet contents, flow statistics, and protocol semantics are directly available, NIC electromagnetic leakage provides an indirect physical observa-tion of NIC processing activity. Its characteristics are naturally shaped by how a network behavior is executed, including re-quest timing, rate, concurrency, and burst organization. These traffic-induced dynamics are therefore part of the physical arXiv:2608.22941v1 [cs.CR] 24 Aug 2026 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0  

> Flood PathDisc DirEnum PortScan SQLi XSS Fig. 2. Representative NIC electromagnetic traces collected under different network behaviors. The measurements exhibit observable variations in burst organization, activity duration, and temporal dynamics, while retaining sub-stantial overlap.

manifestation of network behavior at the NIC. More broadly, prior work has shown that network activity can also be exposed through indirect timing and transport-layer side channels [8], [9]. Accordingly, the first question we investigate is whether different network behaviors induce sufficiently distinguishable physical patterns in NIC electromagnetic emissions. Figure 2 shows representative EM observations under differ-ent network activities. The traces exhibit partially overlapping yet behavior-dependent temporal variations, motivating the systematic analysis that follows. However, exploiting NIC electromagnetic leakage as a se-curity observation source introduces two fundamental chal-lenges. First, the measured EM signal reflects the physical consequences of NIC activity rather than explicit network semantics, making it necessary to determine whether different network behaviors induce distinguishable physical structures. Second, such structures may vary with tools, execution con-figurations, background activities, and hardware conditions, raising the question of whether behavior-related information persists beyond a specific experimental realization. Motivated by these observations, we introduce NICWhisper, a systematic study of NIC electromagnetic leakage as a complementary physical observation channel for network behavior recogni-tion. NICWhisper aims to characterize whether such physical patterns provide stable and discriminative evidence across different network behaviors and execution conditions. To this end, NICWhisper employs a simple time–frequency analysis pipeline that converts raw electromagnetic measurements into discriminative representations and evaluates their capability under diverse network scenarios. To evaluate the feasibility of this new observation channel, we construct a NIC electromagnetic dataset containing active benign workloads and seven representative network threat behaviors. The dataset includes variations in network tools, execution configurations, target conditions, and concurrent benign activities, which allows us to examine whether the observed electromagnetic patterns are associated with general network behaviors rather than fixed experimental artifacts. Extensive experiments demonstrate that NIC electromagnetic leakage preserves discriminative behavior-related information and can serve as a complementary observation source for network security analysis. Our contributions are summarized as follows:  

> •

We release a NIC electromagnetic leakage dataset for network behavior recognition, covering active benign workloads and seven representative threat behaviors un-der varied tools, execution configurations, and concurrent network activities.  

> •

We present, to the best of our knowledge, the first system-atic study of NIC electromagnetic leakage as a physical observation channel for network behavior recognition, and characterize how aggregate NIC activity exposes behavior-related signal structures.  

> •

We develop a simple time–frequency analysis and recog-nition pipeline and conduct comprehensive experiments to characterize its effectiveness, signal dependence, sen-sitivity, execution variation, and cross-device transfer. II. M OTIVATION AND THREAT MODEL 

A. Motivation of NICWhisper 

Network traffic inspection and host monitoring provide rich semantic information and remain the primary means of network threat detection. NICWhisper complements these mechanisms with an external physical observation channel acquired independently of the monitored software stack. Such an observation can be useful for closed, legacy, mission-critical, or resource-constrained systems where mod-ifying the software stack or continuously running monitoring agents is undesirable or impractical. It may also provide security evidence acquired outside the software environment being examined. The NIC is a natural observation point because network communication must eventually be processed by the network interface. Recent work has likewise explored communica-tion controllers as strategic observation points for security monitoring [10]. Packet transmission and reception trig-ger frame processing, buffering, controller operations, host-interface communication, and physical-layer activity. The cor-responding electrical activity may produce behavior-dependent electromagnetic emissions. NICWhisper captures these emissions using an external probe and analyzes them on an independent host. It does not inspect packet contents or require software instrumentation of the monitored system. The intended deployment targets a limited number of fixed and security-sensitive devices for which an additional physical observation is valuable. 2B. Threat Model 

Monitored setting. We consider a server or networked device whose evaluated communication passes through a des-ignated NIC. The defender owns or manages the device and is authorized to place an EM probe near the NIC. The sensing equipment and analysis host are trusted, and their configuration remains fixed during recognition. NICWhisper receives only the captured EM trace as input. Packet payloads, flow records, host logs, system calls, and process states are not available to the recognizer. 

Network activities. A remote adversary communicates with the monitored system through the target NIC and may perform flooding, port scanning, service probing, web enumeration, SQL-injection probing, or cross-site-scripting probing. The attacker may vary tools, request rates, concurrency, timing, targets, and attack inputs. Meanwhile, benign users may browse web pages, request content, or download files from the same server. Threat and benign activities may therefore coexist on the monitored NIC. For a threat-related observation, we represent the acquired trace abstractly as 

x = Hh,p (Ay,κ (θ) ⊕ B (ϕ)) + n, (1) where Ay,κ (θ) denotes threat behavior y generated by tool κ under configuration θ, and B(ϕ) denotes concurrent benign activity. The mapping Hh,p captures the hardware- and sensing-dependent transformation from the composite network workload to the measured EM trace. This abstraction does not attribute the leakage to a specific internal circuit. The captured signal may contain the combined activity of the NIC controller, physical-layer interface, host interface, and local supporting circuitry. 

Recognition scope. NICWhisper focuses on representative network activities commonly observed during the early discov-ery, probing, and exploitation stages of remote attacks. The evaluated behaviors include flooding, port scanning, service probing, directory enumeration, web-path discovery, SQL-injection probing, and cross-site-scripting probing. Active be-nign access is included as a separate class, covering ordinary web browsing, content requests, and file downloading. The classes are defined by observable network behav-iors rather than complete attack campaigns or strict MITRE ATT&CK technique labels. NICWhisper therefore associates each EM observation with one of the predefined behavior families based on aggregate NIC activity. III. B ACKGROUND 

A. Physical Side Channels for Security Monitoring 

Runtime electrical activity can induce externally measurable power and electromagnetic variations. Beyond traditional side-channel leakage, prior studies have used such physical signals for external security monitoring, including intrusion and mal-ware detection [11], [12]. Other work further shows that EM emissions can preserve higher-level runtime structure, such as visual or neural-network execution information [13]–[17].  

> Fig. 3. Conceptual relationship between NIC processing activity and unin-tended electromagnetic emissions. Multiple functional components contribute to aggregate NIC activity observed through the external EM channel.

These studies motivate physical sensing as an observation source outside the monitored software stack. However, they do not establish whether remotely generated network behaviors can be recognized from aggregate NIC electromagnetic leak-age, particularly in the presence of concurrent benign traffic. 

B. NIC Electromagnetic Side Channel 

A network interface card (NIC) mediates communication between the host and the external network. Packet transmis-sion and reception activate multiple functional components of the NIC, including the host interface, controller/MAC logic, buffering and DMA operations, and the physical-layer circuitry. The resulting time-varying electrical activity can produce unintended electromagnetic (EM) emissions that are observable outside the device [18], [19]. As illustrated in Fig. 3, NICWhisper treats the measured EM signal as an aggregate physical observation of NIC processing activity. The captured leakage may contain contributions from multiple parts of the NIC subsystem and supporting circuitry; therefore, we do not assume that individual sources can be separately observed or that a measured waveform can be attributed to a specific circuit block. The highlighted functional regions illustrate the major processing stages involved in network communication rather than a circuit-level leakage decomposition. Accordingly, the captured EM trace is not a direct rep-resentation of Ethernet frames, packet contents, or protocol fields. Instead, it reflects aggregate electrical activity induced by traffic processing, whose temporal and spectral organization is naturally shaped by execution characteristics such as request timing, rate, concurrency, burst structure, and transfer intensity. These characteristics are intrinsic to how network behaviors are realized at the NIC and form part of the physical mech-anism through which network behavior becomes observable in the EM domain. NICWhisper therefore treats such traffic-induced physical characteristics as behavior-related evidence rather than attempting to separate them from the network behavior that produces them. Since the same high-level behav-ior may vary across tools, parameters, and concurrent benign traffic, the resulting EM traces are modeled as statistical 3−2.0 −1.5 −1.0                            

> log RMS
> 012345
> Density
> (a) Overlapped RMS statistic
> Flood PathDisc DirEnum PortScan SQLi XSS
> Benign Flood PortScan SvcProbe DirEnum PathDisc SQLi XSS
> Predicted
> Benign Flood PortScan SvcProbe DirEnum PathDisc SQLi XSS
> True
> 24 12 22 16 47 15 14 40 12 16 14 16 47 60 16 28 18 14 19 14 18 12 22 28 45
> (b) Stats-9D RF confusion
> 050 100 Fig. 4. Preliminary characterization of NIC electromagnetic measurements. (a) Network behaviors exhibit different log-RMS tendencies, but their dis-tributions substantially overlap. (b) Arandom forest using nine whole-trace descriptors produces a structured confusion matrix while retaining considerable cross-class confusion.

behavior-related evidence rather than deterministic waveform signatures. 

C. Preliminary Signal Characterization 

We perform a preliminary characterization to examine whether NIC electromagnetic measurements retain behavior-related information and whether such information is captured by coarse whole-trace summaries. The measurements contain active benign access and representative threat behaviors col-lected using the same NIC and sensing configuration. We first calculate the root-mean-square value of each one-second trace. Figure 4(a) shows that the behavior classes ex-hibit different distribution tendencies, indicating that network workloads affect the overall measured activity. However, the distributions substantially overlap, and a single global signal level cannot reliably separate benign access from different threat behaviors. We then extract nine conventional whole-trace descriptors covering amplitude, energy, distribution shape, and coarse spectral properties, and use them to train a random-forest classifier. As shown in Fig. 4(b), the resulting confusion matrix exhibits a visible diagonal structure, providing initial evidence that the measurements retain behavior-related information. Considerable confusion nevertheless remains among benign access, scanning, enumeration, and application-layer probing. This diagnostic classifier evaluates how much behavior-related information is retained by conventional whole-trace summaries. The results show that they do, but also discard important temporal organization. A whole-trace RMS value removes temporal and spectral structure, while a global spectrum does not preserve when particular frequency components occur. A time–frequency representation instead retains both the temporal evolution and spectral-energy distribution of NIC activity, making it suitable for representing sustained processing, intermittent communi-cation, repeated bursts, and irregular probing sequences. IV. NICW HISPER DESIGN 

A. Design Overview 

NICWhisper observes the aggregate physical activity in-duced by network processing at the NIC and examines whether this activity retains sufficiently stable behavior-related infor-mation for recognition. Figure 5 presents the overall design. NICWhisper consists of two conceptual stages. During training, network behaviors are exercised against a monitored service while a near-field probe externally captures the electromagnetic emissions of the NIC. The resulting traces are associated with behavior-level labels and converted into time–frequency representations, from which a spectrogram-based classifier is trained. For a new NIC EM observation, the same signal conditioning and time–frequency transformation are applied before behavior prediction. The two stages therefore share the same physical observation and representation pipeline; their difference lies only in whether the resulting representation is used to train or query the classifier. Two challenges guide the design of NICWhisper. 

Challenge 1: Execution diversity. The same network behavior can be realized by different tools, parameters, timing patterns, and inputs. A dataset tied to a single execution per class may therefore capture implementation-specific artifacts rather than behavior-related physical characteristics. NICWhis-per introduces diverse executions during data construction while maintaining behavior-level supervision. 

Challenge 2: Temporal–spectral organization. Behavior-related evidence may appear in signal intensity, burst timing, repetition, and spectral-energy evolution. NICWhisper there-fore transforms each EM observation into a time–frequency representation that preserves these complementary structures. 

B. Network Behavior and EM Trace Construction 

The first requirement of NICWhisper is to establish ameaningful correspondence between a network behavior and the physical activity observed at the NIC. We construct this relationship using a functional web service rather than an idle network interface or an isolated attack-only setup. Specifically, we deploy an active Blog service as the monitored application. Normal observations contain legitimate browsing, content requests, and file-transfer activities with varied resources, navigation order, and request timing. The Normal class therefore represents active legitimate network usage rather than an idle NIC baseline. We consider one benign behavior together with seven rep-resentative threat behaviors: flooding, port scanning, service probing, directory enumeration, web-path discovery, SQL-injection probing, and cross-site-scripting probing. Let Y =

{y1, . . . , y C } denote the behavior set. For a behavior y, we describe one concrete execution as 

a = ( y, κ, θ), (2) where κ denotes the tool or implementation realizing the behavior and θ denotes its execution configuration. Depending 4Fig. 5. Overview of NICWhisper. During training, externally captured NIC EM traces are associated with network-behavior labels and transformed into time–frequency representations for classifier training. For a new EM observation, NICWhisper applies the same signal conditioning and STFT mapping before predicting the corresponding network behavior. TABLE I NETWORK BEHAVIORS AND WORKLOAD VARIATIONS USED FOR NIC EM               

> TRACE COLLECTION .
> Behavior Workload construction and variations
> Normal Active Blog browsing and content access; varied re-sources, navigation order, and request intervals. Flood High-rate requests with varied rate, concurrency, and timing. PortScan Port discovery with varied scan configuration, rate, and target ports. ServiceProbe Service/version probing with varied probe configuration, timing, and target services. DirEnum Directory enumeration with varied wordlists, request rates, and concurrency. PathDisc Web-path discovery with varied path sets, request pat-terns, and concurrency. SQLi SQL-injection probing with varied inputs, timing, and request patterns. XSS Cross-site-scripting probing with varied inputs, timing, and request patterns.

on the behavior, the latter may include request rate, concur-rency, timing, scan mode, target selection, wordlist, path set, or attack input. 

Key Design 1: Behavior-level supervision under exe-cution diversity. For each behavior y, NICWhisper varies both the implementation κ and behavior-specific configura-tion θ during collection while keeping the supervision target unchanged. The learning task targets behavior-level patterns shared across different tools and command configurations. Table I summarizes the behaviors and the principal dimen-sions varied during workload construction. The table describes the collection principle rather than fixing a specific command or tool to each class. The threat-related workloads are not collected by suspend-ing the normal service and executing an attack in isola-tion. Legitimate requests continue to reach the Blog service while threat-related activities are performed. Consequently, the measured EM signal reflects aggregate NIC activity under concurrent network processing. A trace labeled PortScan , for example, denotes an observation acquired while port scan-ning is present in the monitored workload; it should not be interpreted as a pure electromagnetic waveform generated exclusively by the scanner. The same principle applies to the other threat classes. After acquisition, each measurement used for recognition is associated with its behavior label. We denote the resulting dataset as 

D = {(xi, y i)}Ni=1 , xi = [ xi[0] , . . . , x i[Li − 1]] , (3) where yi ∈ Y is the network behavior associated with the observation and Li is the number of acquired samples. We do not require all original acquisitions to share the same temporal extent; this variability is handled in the representation stage described next. 

C. Time–Frequency Representation 

The raw NIC EM observation preserves fine temporal detail, but behavior-related information may be distributed across burst timing, repetition, periodicity, and spectral-energy vari-ation. A whole-trace Fourier spectrum summarizes frequency content but removes temporal localization. NICWhisper there-fore uses a time–frequency representation to retain both di-mensions [20], [21]. Figure 6 illustrates this distinction. The raw sequence retains fine temporal detail, but informative structures can remain dispersed over the observation. The global spectrum exposes frequency and periodic information while collapsing the lo-cations at which these components occur. A time–frequency representation preserves both aspects and makes localized bursts, repeated spectral structures, and time-varying energy distributions directly observable in the same representation. NICWhisper applies only limited signal conditioning be-fore time–frequency transformation. We do not attempt to identify packet boundaries or explicitly separate benign and 5Fig. 6. Comparison of raw-sequence, global-spectrum, and STFT representations. 

threat-related components from the measured trace. Non-finite samples, when present, are handled deterministically, and the trace-wise DC component is removed: 

˜xi[n] = xi[n] − 1

LiLi−1X

> r=0

xi[r]. (4) This removes the measurement offset while retaining relative amplitude variation and temporal organization. 

Key Design 2: Preserving joint temporal–spectral or-ganization. For a conditioned observation ˜xi, NICWhisper computes the short-time Fourier transform [20] 

Xi(m, k ) =  

> W−1

X

> n=0

˜xi[n + mH ] w[n] e−j2πkn/K , (5) where w[n] is the analysis window, W is the window length, 

H is the hop size, K is the FFT size, and m and k index time frames and frequency bins, respectively. We use its log-power representation 

Si(m, k ) = log 



1 + |Xi(m, k )|2

, (6) which reduces the dynamic range while retaining the organi-zation of spectral energy over time. The STFT reorganizes the observation so that local fre-quency content is associated with its temporal position. Sus-tained activity may therefore appear as persistent energy structure, repeated processing as recurring spectral patterns, and intermittent probing as temporally localized activity. These structures need not form deterministic signatures; the repre-sentation simply exposes dimensions along which behavior-related differences can be learned. The time–frequency representation also provides a practical way to handle acquisition traces with different lengths. For a trace with Li samples, the number of STFT frames depends on its duration, and the resulting spectrogram may therefore have a different temporal dimension from that of another trace. Rather than padding or truncating a potentially very long raw waveform to a common number of samples, NICWhisper maps the spectrogram to a fixed spatial resolution: 

¯Si = R(Si) ∈ RF0×T0 , (7) where R(·) denotes the deterministic resizing operation and 

F0 × T0 is the common classifier input size. This operation provides a consistent classifier input while retaining the coarse ordering of temporal and spectral structures. All samples use the same STFT and resizing configuration. Feature normalization is estimated from the training data and applied unchanged to validation and test observations. Concrete values for the STFT window, hop size, input res-olution, and other implementation parameters are reported in Section V-A. 

D. Network Behavior Recognition 

NICWhisper finally learns the association between the time– frequency representation and the corresponding network be-havior. Because NICWhisper focuses on characterizing the physical observation channel, we use a compact conventional classifier for behavior recognition. The classifier operates directly on ¯Si. It consists of asmall sequence of standard two-dimensional convolutional blocks [22] followed by global feature aggregation and a classification layer. The convolutional operations capture local time–frequency structures, while the progressively aggregated representation combines evidence distributed across the spec-trogram. Detailed layer dimensions and training hyperparam-eters are given in Section V-A. The classifier is trained using the standard cross-entropy objective. For a previously unseen NIC EM observation, the signal undergoes exactly the same conditioning, STFT computation, log-power transformation, spatial resizing, and normalization as the training samples. The classifier then predicts one of the behavior classes in Y. No packet contents or host-side states are introduced at this stage. 6TABLE II BALANCED SOURCE -NIC DATA SPLIT USED IN RQ1, RQ2, AND RQ4. Partition Per Class Classes Total Training 300 8 2,400 Validation 50 8 400 Test 150 8 1,200 

V. E VALUATION 

We evaluate NICWhisper to determine whether NIC elec-tromagnetic leakage can provide a meaningful physical obser-vation of network behaviors. Our evaluation characterizes the NIC EM observation channel along five dimensions. Specif-ically, we ask five questions. RQ1 examines whether NIC EM measurements contain sufficient information to distinguish benign activity and different threat behaviors. RQ2 investigates what signal structure supports this recognition capability. RQ3 studies whether behavior-related information persists across execution variations. RQ4 characterizes the sensitivity of the observation under controlled measurement perturbations. Fi-nally, RQ5 examines whether the learned behavior-related information transfers across different NIC hardware. 

A. Experimental Setup 

Physical measurement platform. We use the same NIC EM acquisition platform throughout the evaluation. The sens-ing target is an external USB 3.0 Gigabit Ethernet adapter based on the Realtek RTL8153B controller. A magnetic near-field probe is fixed on a three-axis precision positioning stage and placed near the target NIC to maintain consistent sensing geometry across measurements. The captured analog signal is amplified by a 30-dB low-noise amplifier and digitized using a PicoScope 3000-series oscilloscope at 1 MS/s. The sensing and acquisition equipment remains external to the monitored software environment. The monitored network service remains active during col-lection, as described in Section IV-B. Normal samples contain active legitimate network interactions rather than an idle NIC, while threat-related samples are acquired in the presence of concurrent legitimate activity. Detailed workload-generation tools and behavior-specific execution configurations are pro-vided in Appendix C. 

Dataset and split. The main source-NIC acquisition con-tains 4,652 valid one-second EM traces across eight behavior classes. Because the original class sizes differ, we construct a balanced evaluation pool by selecting 500 observations per class, yielding 4,000 traces in total. Table II summarizes the fixed training, validation, and test partitions used in RQ1, RQ2, and RQ4. The selection seed is fixed to 42. RQ3 and RQ5 follow their dedicated evaluation protocols described in Sections V-D and V-F, respectively. The split is acquisition-session disjoint: all traces from the same execution session are assigned to a single partition. 

Signal representation. Each evaluation trace contains 10 6

samples acquired at 1 MS/s, corresponding to a one-second observation. We first replace isolated non-finite samples with zero and remove the trace-wise DC component. NICWhisper then computes a log-power STFT using a 2,048-sample Hann window [23], a 2,048-point FFT, and a non-overlapping 2,048-sample hop. The resulting one-sided representation contains 1,025 frequency bins and 488 temporal frames over the 0– 500 kHz frequency range. The spectrogram is area-resampled to 128 ×128 before clas-sification. We standardize the resulting representations using one global mean and standard deviation estimated exclusively from the training set. Validation and test samples reuse these statistics without refitting. 

Recognizer and training. The classifier contains three convolutional stages with 32, 64, and 128 channels. The first two stages are followed by 2 × 2 max pooling, while the final stage is followed by adaptive global average pooling and an eight-class linear prediction layer. The model contains 94,152 trainable parameters. We optimize cross-entropy loss using AdamW [24] with a learning rate of 10 −3, weight decay 10 −4, and batch size 32. Training is limited to 20 epochs, with early stopping after five epochs without improvement in validation Macro-F1. The best validation checkpoint is used for testing. Unless otherwise stated, every experiment is repeated with five random seeds, 

0–4, and results are reported as mean ± standard deviation. All experiments are executed on an Intel Xeon w5-3423 CPU without GPU acceleration. 

Metrics. We report Accuracy together with macro-averaged Precision, Recall, and F1-score. Macro-F1 is used as the pri-mary multi-class metric because it assigns equal importance to all eight behaviors. For RQ1, we additionally report a pooled benign-versus-threat AUROC and analyze the geometry of the learned representation. For robustness experiments, the same trained models and test observations are retained so that performance changes can be attributed to the evaluated perturbation. 

B. RQ1: Observation Feasibility 

Can NIC electromagnetic leakage provide sufficient physical information to distinguish benign activity and different network threat behaviors? 

RQ1 evaluates the central hypothesis of NICWhisper: whether network behaviors leave sufficiently informative phys-ical evidence in the electromagnetic emissions of a NIC to support recognition. We evaluate the eight-class task using the fixed balanced test set and repeat the experiment over five independent training runs. Table III reports the per-class and overall recognition perfor-mance. NICWhisper achieves an average Accuracy of 80 .53% 

and a Macro-F1 of 80 .67% . Since the test set contains the same number of observations for every behavior, the Macro-F1 provides a direct view of recognition quality across the complete behavior set rather than being dominated by aparticular class. The results are not driven by a single easily recognizable behavior. Flood and SQLi obtain F1-scores of 90 .51% and 7TABLE III PER -CLASS AND OVERALL RECOGNITION PERFORMANCE (%).                                                                                                 

> Metric Normal Flood PortScan SvcProbe DirEnum PathDisc SQLi XSS F1-score 84 .85 ±6.82 90 .51 ±1.85 69 .12 ±10 .74 79 .33 ±15 .13 75 .06 ±4.66 70 .98 ±6.01 91 .44 ±2.16 84 .04 ±5.95
> Precision 78 .90 ±9.38 93 .14 ±4.73 69 .61 ±9.18 86 .27 ±13 .47 84 .62 ±13 .86 64 .99 ±12 .81 95 .56 ±3.55 91 .84 ±3.65
> Recall 92 .53 ±6.76 88 .27 ±3.67 71 .47 ±20 .06 74 .53 ±17 .17 69 .47 ±9.70 81 .60 ±11 .48 87 .87 ±4.43 78 .53 ±12 .02
> Overall: Accuracy: 80 .53 ±5.14 Macro-F1: 80 .67 ±5.36 Macro-Precision: 83 .12 ±5.39 Macro-Recall: 80 .53 ±5.14

91 .44% , respectively, while Normal and XSS also exceed 84% .PortScan and PathDisc are comparatively more challenging, with F1-scores of 69 .12% and 70 .98% . ServiceProbe and Di-rEnum lie between these two groups. This variation is expected for a physical observation channel: different behaviors can induce partially overlapping NIC activity even though their high-level network semantics differ. To examine the recognition behavior beyond aggregate metrics, Fig. 7 provides four complementary views of the results. Figure 7(a) shows that the dominant mass remains on the diagonal of the normalized confusion matrix, confirming that the measured channel contains information beyond a binary active-versus-inactive distinction. The remaining errors are concentrated among several behaviors that can induce similar request-driven activity. In particular, DirEnum is frequently confused with PathDisc, while ServiceProbe exhibits partial confusion with Normal and PortScan. Such errors are consis-tent with the fact that the EM observation reflects aggregate NIC processing rather than explicit packet or application semantics. Figure 7(b) further examines the result across independent runs. Flood, SQLi, Normal, and XSS remain comparatively stable, whereas PortScan and ServiceProbe exhibit larger run-to-run variation. Nevertheless, every behavior retains recogni-tion performance substantially above the chance level of the eight-class task. The observed variation is more consistent with differences in class difficulty than with a complete loss of discriminative information for particular behaviors. For each test observation, we extract the 128-dimensional feature vector immediately before the final classification layer. As illustrated in Fig. 7(c), the representations exhibit visi-ble class-dependent organization while retaining substantial overlap, consistent with the errors observed in the confusion matrix. Across the five runs, the mean within-class distance is 3.149 ± 0.099 , whereas the mean distance between class centroids is 6.820 ± 0.226 . Their ratio is 2.166 ± 0.049 , indi-cating that between-class separation is approximately twice the average within-class dispersion. The corresponding silhouette score is 0.178 ± 0.029 . We do not interpret this representation as a set of deterministic EM signatures; rather, it provides complementary evidence that the measured traces contain learnable behavior-related structure. Finally, we consider a coarser security question: whether the NIC EM observation can distinguish active benign behavior from the presence of any evaluated threat behavior. We do not train a separate binary model. Instead, for each eight-class prediction, we define the threat score as 1 − p(Normal) ,treating Normal as the negative class and all seven threat behaviors as positive. As shown in Fig. 7(d), this yields a mean AUROC of 0.985 ± 0.012 across five runs. The substantially higher benign-versus-threat separability compared with the finer eight-class task suggests that a considerable portion of the remaining errors occurs among threat behaviors rather than between benign activity and threat presence. 

C. RQ2: What Signal Structure Supports Behavior Recogni-tion? 

RQ1 demonstrates that NIC electromagnetic measurements contain sufficient information to distinguish different network behaviors. However, recognition performance alone does not reveal how behavior-related information is represented in the physical signal. As NIC emissions reflect traffic-induced processing activity, this information may be distributed across signal magnitude, temporal dynamics, and spectral structure. RQ2 therefore examines how recognition changes when these signal properties are selectively suppressed or disrupted. We consider three types of diagnostic controls. First, ampli-tude and energy normalization reduce global signal-strength cues while retaining most of the temporal organization of the observation. Second, temporal and spectral interventions perturb one structural dimension while leaving other infor-mation partially available. Finally, time–frequency shuffling disrupts the joint spatial organization of the spectrogram. We additionally include a random-label control as a sanity check. These interventions are diagnostic analyses rather than models of physical attacks against NICWhisper. Figure 8 summarizes the recognition results under these controls. The original representation achieves a Macro-F1 of 

80 .67% ± 5.36% . After amplitude normalization, performance remains at 76 .17% ± 6.15% , corresponding to a decrease of 4.50 percentage points. Energy normalization produces an even smaller reduction of 2.16 points, retaining 78 .51% ±

2.18% Macro-F1. Thus, absolute signal magnitude and aggre-gate energy contribute to recognition, but neither can account for the majority of the discriminative capability observed in RQ1. Perturbing temporal or spectral organization individually produces a similarly moderate effect. Temporal block shuffling yields 77 .59% ± 4.22% Macro-F1, while spectral structure disruption yields 76 .52% ± 2.36% , corresponding to decreases 8Normal Flood PortScan SvcProbe DirEnum PathDisc SQLi XSS                          

> Predicted behavior
> Normal Flood PortScan SvcProbe DirEnum PathDisc SQLi XSS
> True behavior
> 0.93 0.88 0.71 0.10 0.13 0.11 0.75 0.08 0.69 0.21 0.82 0.88 0.14 0.79
> a
> Normalized Confusion
> 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1.0
> Test F1 score
> Normal Flood PortScan SvcProbe DirEnum PathDisc SQLi XSS
> Macro-F1 = 0.8067
> b
> Per-Behavior Stability
> −8 −6 −4 −2 02468
> PC1
> −6 −4 −2 02468
> PC2
> c
> Learned Representation
> Normal Flood PortScan SvcProbe DirEnum PathDisc SQLi XSS
> 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0
> False-positive rate
> 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0
> True-positive rate
> AUROC = 0.985 ± 0.012
> d
> Benign-vs-Threat ROC
> 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0

Fig. 7. Analysis of NICWhisper’s recognition capability in RQ1. (a) Row-normalized confusion matrix aggregated over five runs. (b) Per-behavior F1 distributions across the five runs, with mean and standard deviation; the dashed line denotes the overall Macro-F1. (c) PCA visualization of the 128-dimensional penultimate-layer representations for a representative run whose Macro-F1 is closest to the five-run mean. (d) Benign-versus-threat ROC curves obtained directly from the eight-class predictions using 1 − p(Normal) as the threat score. 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 

Test Macro-F1 

> 1234567
> Chance
> baseline -4.50 pp -2.16 pp -3.08 pp -4.15 pp
> -19.85 pp -68.34 pp

Controlled Interventions      

> 1 Original 2 Amplitude norm. 3 Energy norm. 4 Temporal shuffle 5 Spectral disruption 6 TF shuffle 7 Random labels

Fig. 8. Recognition performance under the controlled interventions in RQ2. Error bars denote mean ± standard deviation over five runs. 

of 3.08 and 4.15 percentage points, respectively. These results suggest that useful information is not confined to only one of the two dimensions. When one form of organization is weakened, other properties of the physical observation remain available to the classifier. A substantially larger reduction occurs when the joint time– frequency organization is disrupted. Time–frequency shuffling reduces Macro-F1 to 60 .82% ± 2.13% , a decrease of 19.85 percentage points relative to the original representation. This drop is markedly larger than those caused by suppressing global magnitude cues or perturbing temporal and spectral structure individually. The result provides direct experimental support for the representation choice in Section IV-C: recogni-tion benefits from how NIC activity is jointly organized across time and frequency rather than from a single global signal statistic. The random-label control provides a final sanity check. 0100 200 300 400 500 

> Frequency (kHz)  (a)

Original 

> (b)

Amplitude Normalization      

> 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0

Time (s) 

> 0100 200 300 400 500
> Frequency (kHz)  (c)

Temporal Block Shuffle      

> 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0

Time (s) 

> (d)

Time–Frequency Shuffle 

> 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5
> Log power

Fig. 9. Effect of representative interventions on the same NIC EM observa-tion. (a) Original time–frequency representation. (b) Amplitude normalization changes the global scale while retaining much of the temporal–spectral organization. (c) Temporal block shuffling changes the long-range temporal arrangement while preserving local structures. (d) Time–frequency shuffling strongly disrupts joint spatial organization. 

When the input observations remain unchanged but their train-ing labels are randomized, Macro-F1 falls to 12 .33% ±4.50% ,close to the 12 .5% chance level of the eight-class problem. This confirms that the performance observed in RQ1 depends on a meaningful association between NIC EM observations and network-behavior labels rather than on the training proce-dure or class distribution alone. To make the structural interventions more interpretable, Fig. 9 visualizes representative transformations applied to the same NIC EM observation. As illustrated in Fig. 9(a)–(b), amplitude normalization leaves the locations and relative organization of many time– frequency structures visually intact, consistent with its modest effect on recognition performance. Temporal block shuffling 9preserves substantial local spectral content but changes its arrangement along the time axis. In contrast, time–frequency shuffling largely removes the coherent neighborhood structure visible in the original representation. The visual progression is therefore consistent with the quantitative results: weakening simple global cues has a limited effect, whereas destroying joint temporal–spectral organization produces a much larger loss in recognition capability. 

D. RQ3: Attack-Execution Variation 

Does behavior-related NIC EM information persist when the concrete execution of the same network behavior changes? 

The experiments in RQ1 establish that NIC electromagnetic observations are discriminative under the main evaluation set-ting. A remaining question is whether this capability is tied to the concrete execution profile used to generate each behavior. For example, a classifier might associate a behavior with the traffic rhythm induced by one specific tool or parameter configuration rather than with information that persists across different realizations of the same network behavior. RQ3 therefore varies two components of an execution while keeping the behavior label unchanged. The first is the parameter configuration , which changes execution con-ditions such as rate, timing, concurrency, scan configura-tion, or other behavior-specific parameters. The second is the tool/implementation variant , which changes the imple-mentation used to realize the same behavior. We denote the three parameter configurations as P1–P3 and the three tool/implementation variants as Tool-A–Tool-C. All protocols cover the same eight behavior classes. Concrete mappings and configuration details are provided in Appendix C. We evaluate two complementary protocols. The mixed-variation protocol contains all nine combinations of Tool-A– Tool-C and P1–P3. Training, validation, and test partitions are acquisition-session disjoint, while each partition contains execution diversity. This setting evaluates whether NICWhis-per can learn behavior information when tool and parameter variation are already present in the observation pool. The held-out-variation protocol is more restrictive. One entire parameter configuration or tool variant is excluded from training and appears only during testing. For parame-ter variation, we evaluate P1+P2 →P3 and P2+P3 →P1. For tool variation, we evaluate Tool-A+Tool-B →Tool-C and Tool-A+Tool-C →Tool-B. Thus, the evaluated execution identity is unavailable to the classifier during training. Table IV summarizes the protocols, execution coverage, data volume, and recognition results. The mixed-variation protocol first examines recogni-tion when execution diversity is present throughout the dataset. It contains nine distinct Tool ×Parameter iden-tities and 2,400/400/1,200 training/validation/test observa-tions. NICWhisper achieves 78 .30% ± 4.62% Accuracy and 

78 .06% ± 4.88% Macro-F1. The result shows that combining multiple concrete executions within each behavior class does not remove the discriminative information available in the NIC EM channel. We next withhold an entire parameter configuration from training. When P1 and P2 are available during training and P3 is reserved exclusively for testing, NICWhisper achieves 

73 .77% ±6.24% Macro-F1. In the reverse configuration, train-ing with P2 and P3 and testing on the unseen P1 configuration produces 67 .51% ± 5.93% Macro-F1. The aggregate result across the two directions is 70 .64% ± 5.04% .The difference between the two parameter-held-out direc-tions is itself informative. It indicates that execution param-eters can induce substantial changes in the measured phys-ical distribution even when the high-level behavior remains unchanged. Nevertheless, both tests retain considerable multi-class recognition capability despite complete exclusion of the evaluated parameter configuration from the training protocol. We next change the tool or implementation while preserving the behavior label. Training on Tool-A and Tool-B and evalu-ating exclusively on Tool-C yields 86 .88% ±1.84% Macro-F1. Training on Tool-A and Tool-C and evaluating on the unseen Tool-B yields 83 .16% ± 2.86% . Across the two directions, the average Macro-F1 is 85 .02% ± 1.61% .Importantly, the higher absolute values observed in the tool-held-out experiments should not be interpreted as evidence that an unseen tool improves recognition. The RQ1, mixed-variation, and held-out protocols do not share identical training constructions or test distributions. The underlying base split remains 2,400/400/1,200 training/validation/test observations. In each held-out experiment, however, every base training and validation observation is instantiated under the two available training-side variations, producing 4,800 training and 800 validation observations, whereas each base test observation is instantiated only under the held-out variation, leaving 1,200 test observations. Moreover, individual held-out variants can differ in intrinsic classification difficulty. Absolute scores across these protocols are therefore not a controlled measure of performance gain or loss. Instead, the relevant result is that withholding the evaluated tool/implementation does not cause recognition to collapse. The classifier continues to distinguish the eight behavior classes even when the implementation used at test time is entirely absent from its training variations. Thus, despite changes in the concrete implementation used to realize a behavior, the behavior-related information captured in the NIC EM observations remains recognizable under previously unseen tool/implementation variants. 

E. RQ4: Sensitivity to Controlled Signal Perturbations 

How sensitive is NICWhisper to controlled perturbations of the measured EM observation? 

The preceding experiments use EM traces acquired under a fixed measurement configuration. Since NICWhisper relies on a physical observation channel, its measurements can vary in signal magnitude, background noise, temporal alignment, and spectral response [19], [25]. We characterize these factors 10 TABLE IV RECOGNITION UNDER MIXED AND HELD -OUT EXECUTION VARIATIONS IN RQ3 (%).                                                                                                         

> Protocol Factor Train Vars. Test Var. #Scen. Obs. (Tr/V/Te) Accuracy (%) Macro-F1 (%) Avg. (%) Mixed Tool+Param. A/B/C ×P1/P2/P3 Mixed pool 92400/400/1200 78 .30 ±4.62 78 .06 ±4.88 –
> Param. hold-out Parameter P1 + P2 P3 34800/800/1200 75 .00 ±5.66 73 .77 ±6.24 (Acc.) 71 .47 ±4.45
> P2 + P3 P1 34800/800/1200 67 .95 ±5.86 67 .51 ±5.93 (F1) 70 .64 ±5.04
> Tool hold-out Tool Tool-A + Tool-B Tool-C 34800/800/1200 86 .93 ±1.83 86 .88 ±1.84 (Acc.) 85 .07 ±1.54
> Tool-A + Tool-C Tool-B 34800/800/1200 83 .20 ±2.71 83 .16 ±2.86 (F1) 85 .02 ±1.61 0.8 0.9 1.0 1.1 1.2
> Amplitude scale
> 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9
> Test Macro-F1
> Amplitude Scaling
> a
> 0.783 0.801 0.807 0.805 0.801
> Clean 30 25 20 15 10
> SNR (dB)
> Additive Gaussian Noise
> b
> 0.807 0.808 0.810 0.798 0.678 0.390
> 0125
> Temporal shift (%)
> Temporal Shift
> c
> 0.807 0.807 0.805 0.802
> None Mild Moderate Strong
> Perturbation severity
> Frequency Perturbation
> d
> 0.807 0.804 0.715 0.453

Fig. 10. Sensitivity of NICWhisper to controlled signal perturbations without retraining. Points report mean Macro-F1 over five runs and error bars denote standard deviation. The dashed line marks the original RQ1 performance. (a) Amplitude scaling. (b) Additive white Gaussian noise at different SNR levels. (c) Temporal shifts relative to the observation duration. (d) Increasing frequency-domain perturbation. 

individually by perturbing one signal property at a time while keeping the acquisition configuration fixed. We reuse the five models trained in RQ1 and evaluate them on the same 1,200-trace test set without retraining or adaptation. Four controlled perturbations are considered: amplitude scaling, additive white Gaussian noise, temporal shifting, and frequency-domain perturbation. Figure 10 reports the resulting Macro-F1 scores. The dashed line marks the original RQ1 Macro-F1 of 80 .67% .Figure 10(a) first examines changes in signal magnitude. Across scaling factors from 0.8× to 1.2×, Macro-F1 ranges from 78 .29% to 80 .67% . Performance remains close to the original setting for 0.9×–1.2×, while the 0.8× condition produces a somewhat larger but still moderate decrease. These results indicate that the recognizer is not critically dependent on one exact signal amplitude, although magnitude variation is not completely inconsequential. The additive-noise experiment in Fig. 10(b) reveals a clearer severity-dependent transition. Macro-F1 remains close to the original result at 30 dB ( 80 .76% ), 25 dB ( 80 .99% ), and 20 dB ( 79 .77% ) SNR. The small differences among these conditions fall within the run-to-run variation and should not be interpreted as a performance improvement caused by noise. At 15 dB, however, Macro-F1 drops to 67 .84% , and at 10 dB it further decreases to 38 .97% . Thus, the system tolerates moderate additive noise in this controlled setting, but recognition degrades sharply once noise becomes sufficiently strong. The nonlinear decrease is consistent with the perturbation magnitude used in the experiment. Noise is scaled from each trace’s raw mean-square power, with the noise RMS equal to the trace RMS divided by 10 SNR /20 . Consequently, reducing SNR from 20 dB to 10 dB increases the noise RMS by approximately 3.16 × and the noise power by 10 ×. The intermediate 15 dB result shows that the degradation is not an isolated failure at 10 dB, but rather the continuation of a transition that begins as broadband contamination becomes strong enough to obscure part of the time–frequency structure. Temporal misalignment has substantially less impact. As shown in Fig. 10(c), shifting the observation by 1% , 2% , and 

5% of its duration yields Macro-F1 scores of 80 .69% , 80 .47% ,and 80 .23% , respectively, compared with 80 .67% without shifting. NICWhisper therefore does not require the relevant activity to occur at one precisely fixed absolute location within the observation window. Finally, Fig. 10(d) evaluates increasing frequency-domain perturbation. A mild perturbation retains 80 .37% Macro-F1, whereas moderate perturbation reduces performance to 

71 .49% . Under the strongest evaluated perturbation, Macro-F1 falls further to 45 .29% . This trend is consistent with the RQ2 observation that structured spectral information contributes to recognition: small spectral changes can be tolerated, whereas stronger distortion progressively removes information avail-able to the time–frequency representation. Taken together, the four experiments show that measurement sensitivity is not uniform. Moderate amplitude variation, small temporal misalignment, and moderate additive noise produce limited degradation, whereas sufficiently strong broadband noise or spectral distortion substantially reduces recognition performance. These results therefore identify an operating region rather than robustness to arbitrary measurement degra-dation. 11 F. RQ5: Cross-Device Transfer 

Does behavior-related NIC EM information transfer to unseen NIC hardware? 

Since electromagnetic emissions depend on the underlying hardware [26], [27], we evaluate whether the behavior-related information learned from one NIC remains useful after the monitored device changes. We use the Realtek RTL8153B as the source NIC and evaluate four previously unseen target NICs: Realtek RTL8156BG, ASIX AX88179A, Microchip LAN7800, and WCH CH9200. The target devices cover both same-vendor and cross-vendor hardware. The acquisition chain and signal-processing configuration are kept unchanged. We consider two transfer settings. In direct cross-device 

evaluation, the model is trained exclusively on the RTL8153B source device and applied to the target NIC without using any target-device training or validation data. This setting measures how much behavior-related information transfers directly across the hardware change. We additionally consider a lightweight adaptation setting in which only 10% of the target-domain training data is used to fine-tune the source model, while the target test set remains unchanged. All results are averaged over five independent random seeds. Table V shows that changing the NIC introduces a clear distribution shift, but does not eliminate the behavior-related information captured by NICWhisper. Without any target-device training data, Macro-F1 ranges from 67 .35% to 72 .67% 

across the four target NICs, with an average of 69 .48% .The highest direct-transfer performance is obtained on the RTL8156BG at 72 .67% , while the three cross-vendor NICs achieve 69 .48% , 68 .42% , and 67 .35% , respectively. These results are substantially above the 12 .5% chance level of the eight-class task, indicating that part of the behavior-related time–frequency structure learned on the source NIC remains useful on previously unseen hardware. At the same time, the decrease relative to the source-device setting confirms that the physical observation is not device invariant. NIC-specific circuitry and electromagnetic coupling affect the mea-sured distribution and therefore remain an important source of domain shift. A small amount of target-device adaptation substantially reduces this gap. With only 10% target-domain fine-tuning data, Macro-F1 increases to 80 .47% , 80 .23% , 79 .51% , and 

77 .37% on the four target NICs, respectively. Averaged across devices, Macro-F1 improves from 69 .48% under direct transfer to 79 .40% after fine-tuning. The improvement is consistent across all four target devices, ranging from 7.80 to 11.09 percentage points. These results indicate that cross-device measurements con-tain both transferable behavior structure and device-specific variation. The transferable component supports direct recog-nition on unseen NICs, while a small amount of target data substantially reduces the device-induced distribution shift. VI. R ELATED WORK 

Network and host-based threat monitoring. Existing net-work threat detection primarily relies on traffic-visible or host-visible evidence. Network-based approaches analyze packets, flows, protocol characteristics, statistical patterns, or encrypted traffic structures to identify malicious activities [1]–[3], [28]– [30]. Host-based and provenance-based systems instead char-acterize suspicious execution from processes, system events, audit records, and causal relationships [4], [31]–[36]. At the communication-interface level, OASIS embeds intrusion detection directly into BLE controllers [10]. These approaches provide substantially richer semantic information than physical measurements, but their acquisition depends on visibility into the communication path or the monitored software stack. 

Electromagnetic leakage and high-level activity infer-ence. Electromagnetic side-channel analysis was initially stud-ied mainly for recovering cryptographic and low-level com-putational information [37], [38]. Subsequent work, however, has shown that unintended emissions can preserve substan-tially higher-level information about device operation. EM Eye demonstrates that electromagnetic leakage from embedded cameras can reveal visual content [14], while other studies infer sensitive information from GPUs, fingerprint sensors, and mobile-device components [39]–[41]. EM radiation has also been exploited for detecting and localizing hidden electronic devices, including GPS trackers and hidden cameras [42], [43]. Together, these studies show that externally observable EM emissions can retain structured information associated with internal device activity, rather than merely exposing simple variations in signal magnitude. Recent work further demonstrates that physical leakage can expose complex workload structure. Maia et al. re-cover neural-network topology and execution characteristics through GPU magnetic emissions [44], while ModelSpy ex-ploits architecture-dependent electromagnetic modulation for long-range model architecture inference [17]. Related studies have investigated neural-network extraction and GPU side-channel leakage through power and electromagnetic observa-tions [45]–[47]. These works are particularly relevant because they demonstrate that physical emissions may preserve tem-poral and structural characteristics of a workload even when the underlying computation is complex. 

Physical side channels as defensive sensors. Physical side channels have also been explored as external security sensors. WattsUpDoc uses power consumption to detect malware on embedded medical devices without modifying the monitored software [48], while DeepPower exploits power side-channel measurements for non-intrusive IoT malware detection [12]. Electromagnetic sensing has enabled similar defensive mecha-nisms. EMMA uses externally measured EM signals for hard-ware/software attestation [49], and IDEA detects intrusions in critical embedded and cyber-physical systems by identify-ing deviations from expected electromagnetic execution pat-terns [11]. REMOTE further studies robust external malware detection using EM observations across embedded and cyber-physical platforms [25], while Pham et al. exploit EM side-channel measurements to classify malware and obfuscated malware executions on IoT devices [50]. Han et al. examine the effectiveness and security limits of physical side-channel 12 TABLE V CROSS -DEVICE TRANSFER FROM THE SOURCE RTL8153B NIC TO FOUR PREVIOUSLY UNSEEN NIC S. D IRECT TRANSFER USES NO TARGET -DEVICE TRAINING DATA , WHEREAS 10% FINE -TUNING USES A SMALL TARGET -DOMAIN TRAINING SUBSET . R ESULTS ARE MEAN ± STANDARD DEVIATION OVER FIVE RUNS (%).                                                                

> Direct Cross-Device 10% Fine-tuning Target NIC Vendor Relation to Source Accuracy Macro-F1 Accuracy Macro-F1
> RTL8156BG Realtek Same vendor, different model 73 .52 ±5.18 72 .67 ±5.36 81 .28 ±0.72 80 .47 ±0.84
> AX88179A ASIX Cross-vendor, different model 70 .24 ±3.32 69 .48 ±3.41 81 .47 ±0.83 80 .23 ±0.91
> LAN7800 Microchip Cross-vendor, different model 69 .36 ±4.07 68 .42 ±4.25 80 .63 ±0.94 79 .51 ±1.02
> CH9200 WCH Cross-vendor, different model 68 .17 ±3.46 67 .35 ±3.53 78 .42 ±1.13 77 .37 ±1.21

control-flow monitoring [51]. EM and power measurements have also been applied to hardware-Trojan and anomalous-device detection [52]–[54]. These studies establish an impor-tant precedent for using unintended physical emissions not only as leakage sources, but also as independent observations for security monitoring. Closer to communication-interface hardware, BlueScream demonstrates that protocol-driven dig-ital activity in BLE devices can induce externally observable electromagnetic leakage [18], while early NIST research showed that WLAN cards exhibit measurable electromagnetic signatures that can differentiate network devices [55]. VII. D ISCUSSION 

A. Implications 

NICWhisper provides a physical observation channel that differs from conventional packet- and host-based monitoring by capturing unintended NIC electromagnetic emissions out-side the monitored software stack. This makes it possible to obtain complementary behavior-level evidence without access-ing packet contents or host-generated telemetry. The measured emissions reflect aggregate NIC activity and are influenced by traffic characteristics such as timing, rate, concurrency, and burst patterns. Our experiments show that these physical patterns remain useful across different execution settings, mod-erate measurement perturbations, and multiple NICs, although their distribution still depends on sensing conditions and hardware. Recognition degrades under severe signal distortion or substantial hardware changes, indicating that sensing quality and device-specific calibration are important considerations for practical use. 

B. Limitations 

NICWhisper has several limitations that bound the con-clusions of the current study. First, our evaluation covers five NICs under a controlled acquisition setup with fixed sensing hardware and controlled probe placement. Although the cross-device experiments demonstrate that behavior-related information remains partially transferable across NIC models and vendors, our goal in this work is to establish the feasibility and characterize the properties of NIC EM leakage as a network-security observation channel, rather than to claim a deployment-ready detection system. A practical deployment may involve additional variations in probes, acquisition de-vices, host platforms, probe placement, and physical environ-ments, which remain to be systematically evaluated. Second, the controlled-perturbation experiments consider controlled signal-level perturbations, including amplitude vari-ation, additive noise, temporal shifting, and spectral distortion. These experiments characterize the operating range of the observation channel but cannot fully reproduce the coupled variations encountered in real environments, such as probe dis-placement, nearby electronics, environmental interference, and long-term measurement drift. Evaluating NICWhisper under realistic and continuously operating deployment conditions, including sensing calibration and maintenance, is therefore an important direction for future work. Finally, the current evaluation considers a predefined set of behavior families and active benign workloads. Extending NIC EM sensing to broader benign activities and previously unseen network behaviors will require additional data collection and open-world recognition mechanisms. Moreover, NICWhisper provides behavior-level physical evidence from aggregate NIC activity; fine-grained packet contents, protocol semantics, or process-level reconstruction are beyond the scope of this study. VIII. C ONCLUSION 

This work investigates NIC electromagnetic leakage as an external physical observation source for network threat-behavior recognition. NICWhisper transforms raw EM mea-surements into time–frequency representations and uses alightweight classifier to distinguish benign and threat-related behaviors. Experiments show that aggregate NIC processing produces behavior-related physical structure shaped by traffic dynamics and extending beyond simple signal strength; this structure remains informative across execution variations and moderate measurement perturbations and partially transfers to unseen NIC hardware. Although severe signal degradation and hardware shifts expose clear limitations, the results establish NIC EM leakage as a promising complementary physical observation surface for network security monitoring. Code and dataset information are available at: https://anonymous.4open. science/r/NICWhisper-C838/. ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 

Generative AI tools, including OpenAI ChatGPT, were used for language refinement and illustrative figure creation. All AI-assisted content was manually reviewed by the authors. 13 ETHICS CONSIDERATIONS 

All evaluated network activities were conducted in a con-trolled experimental environment using research-operated sys-tems and infrastructure. No unauthorized third-party systems were scanned or attacked. NICWhisper records electromag-netic measurements of NIC activity and does not require packet contents, credentials, or personal user information. The study is intended to investigate NIC electromagnetic leakage as a defensive physical observation channel. REFERENCES [1] M. Alkasassbeh and S. Al-Haj Baddar, “Intrusion detection systems: A state-of-the-art taxonomy and survey,” Arabian Journal for Science and Engineering , vol. 48, no. 8, pp. 10 021–10 064, 2023. [2] A. Khraisat, I. Gondal, P. Vamplew, and J. Kamruzzaman, “Survey of intrusion detection systems: techniques, datasets and challenges,” 

Cybersecurity , vol. 2, no. 1, pp. 1–22, 2019. [3] X. Han, S. Liu, J. Liu, B. Jiang, Z. Lu, and B. Liu, “Ecnet: Robust ma-licious network traffic detection with multi-view feature and confidence mechanism,” IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics and Security ,vol. 19, pp. 6871–6885, 2024. [4] M. Zipperle, F. Gottwalt, E. Chang, and T. Dillon, “Provenance-based in-trusion detection systems: A survey,” ACM Computing Surveys , vol. 55, no. 7, pp. 1–36, 2022. [5] K. Scarfone and P. Mell, “Guide to intrusion detection and prevention systems (idps),” National Institute of Standards and Technology, Tech. Rep. NIST Special Publication 800-94, 2007. [6] R. Uetz, M. Herzog, L. Hackl¨ ander, S. Schwarz, and M. Henze, “You cannot escape me: Detecting evasions of {SIEM } rules in enterprise networks,” in 33rd USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 24) ,2024, pp. 5179–5196. [7] K. Alachkar, D. Gaastra, E. Barbaro, M. van Eeten, and Y. Zhau-niarovich, “ {EvilEDR }: Repurposing {EDR } as an offensive tool,” in 

34th USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 25) , 2025, pp. 587–605. [8] S. Gast, R. Czerny, J. Juffinger, F. Rauscher, S. Franza, and D. Gruss, “{SnailLoad }: Exploiting remote network latency measurements without 

{JavaScript },” in 33rd USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 24) , 2024, pp. 2315–2332. [9] F. Yu, Q. Zhou, S. R. Hussain, and D. Zhang, “Athena: Analyzing and quantifying side channels of transport layer protocols,” in 33rd USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 24) , 2024, pp. 3117–3133. [10] R. Cayre, V. Nicomette, G. Auriol, M. Kaˆ aniche, and A. Francillon, “Oasis: An intrusion detection system embedded in bluetooth low energy controllers,” in Proceedings of the 19th ACM Asia Conference on Computer and Communications Security , 2024, pp. 700–715. [11] H. A. Khan, N. Sehatbakhsh, L. N. Nguyen, R. L. Callan, A. Yeredor, M. Prvulovic, and A. G. Zajic, “IDEA: Intrusion detection through electromagnetic-signal analysis for critical embedded and cyber-physical systems,” IEEE Transactions on Dependable and Secure Computing ,vol. 18, no. 3, pp. 1150–1163, 2021. [12] F. Ding, H. Li, F. Luo, H. Hu, L. Cheng, H. Xiao, and R. Ge, “Deeppower: Non-intrusive and deep learning-based detection of iot malware using power side channels,” in Proceedings of the 15th ACM Asia conference on computer and communications security , 2020, pp. 33–46. [13] J. D. Meulemeester, A. Purnal, L. Wouters, A. Beckers, and I. Ver-bauwhede, “SpectrEM: Exploiting electromagnetic emanations during transient execution,” in 32nd USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 23) . USENIX Association, 2023, pp. 6293–6310. [14] Y. Long, Q. Jiang, C. Yan, T. Alam, X. Ji, W. Xu, and K. Fu, “EM Eye: Characterizing electromagnetic side-channel eavesdropping on embedded cameras,” in Network and Distributed Systems Security (NDSS) Symposium , 2024. [15] W. Li, J. Wang, G. Zhang, Y. Yang, R. Spolaor, X. Cheng, and P. Hu, “Emiris: Eavesdropping on iris information via electromagnetic side channel.” in NDSS , 2025. [16] A. Onishi, S. H. Bhupathiraju, R. Bhatt, S. Rampazzi, and T. Sugawara, “Sound of interference: Electromagnetic eavesdropping attack on digital microphones using pulse density modulation,” in 34th USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 25) , 2025, pp. 3865–3884. [17] R. Xiao, S. Feng, S. Ramesh, J. Han, and J. Han, “Peering inside the black-box: Long-range and scalable model architecture snooping via gpu electromagnetic side-channel,” in Network and Distributed System Security Symposium (NDSS) , 2026. [18] P. Ayoub, R. Cayre, A. Francillon, and C. Maurice, “Bluescream: Screaming channels on bluetooth low energy,” in 2024 Annual Computer Security Applications Conference (ACSAC) . IEEE, 2024, pp. 636–649. [19] P. Ayoub, A. Hernandez, R. Cayre, A. Francillon, and C. Maurice, “Phasesca: Exploiting phase-modulated emanations in side channels,” 

IACR Transactions on Cryptographic Hardware and Embedded Systems ,2025. [20] J. Allen, “Short term spectral analysis, synthesis, and modification by discrete fourier transform,” IEEE transactions on acoustics, speech, and signal processing , vol. 25, no. 3, pp. 235–238, 1977. [21] C. Jin and Y. Zhou, “Enhancing non-profiled side-channel attacks by time-frequency analysis,” Cybersecurity , vol. 6, no. 1, p. 15, 2023. [22] A. Krizhevsky, I. Sutskever, and G. E. Hinton, “Imagenet classification with deep convolutional neural networks,” Advances in neural informa-tion processing systems , vol. 25, 2012. [23] F. J. Harris, “On the use of windows for harmonic analysis with the discrete fourier transform,” Proceedings of the IEEE , vol. 66, no. 1, pp. 51–83, 1978. [24] I. Loshchilov and F. Hutter, “Decoupled weight decay regularization,” 

arXiv preprint arXiv:1711.05101 , 2017. [25] N. Sehatbakhsh, A. Nazari, M. Alam, F. Werner, Y. Zhu, A. G. Zajic, and M. Prvulovic, “REMOTE: Robust external malware detection framework by using electromagnetic signals,” IEEE Transactions on Computers ,vol. 69, no. 3, pp. 312–326, 2020. [26] T. Laor, N. Mehanna, A. Durey, V. Dyadyuk, P. Laperdrix, C. Maurice, Y. Oren, R. Rouvoy, W. Rudametkin, and Y. Yarom, “Drawnapart: A device identification technique based on remote gpu fingerprinting,” in 

Network and Distributed System Security Symposium (NDSS) , 2022. [27] E. C.-Y. Peng and M. G. Kuhn, “Adaptive template attacks on the kyber binomial sampler,” 2025. [28] F. Wei, H. Li, Z. Zhao, and H. Hu, “ {xNIDS }: Explaining deep learning-based network intrusion detection systems for active intrusion responses,” in 32nd USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 23) ,2023, pp. 4337–4354. [29] M. Shen, J. Zhang, L. Zhu, K. Xu, and X. Du, “Accurate decentralized application identification via encrypted traffic analysis using graph neural networks,” IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics and Security , vol. 16, pp. 2367–2380, 2021. [30] C. Fu, Q. Li, and K. Xu, “Flow interaction graph analysis: Unknown encrypted malicious traffic detection,” IEEE/ACM Transactions on Net-working , vol. 32, no. 4, pp. 2972–2987, 2024. [31] Z. Jia, Y. Xiong, Y. Nan, Y. Zhang, J. Zhao, and M. Wen, “ {MAGIC }:Detecting advanced persistent threats via masked graph representation learning,” in 33rd USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 24) ,2024, pp. 5197–5214. [32] Z. Cheng, Q. Lv, J. Liang, Y. Wang, D. Sun, T. Pasquier, and X. Han, “Kairos: Practical intrusion detection and investigation using whole-system provenance,” in 2024 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP) . IEEE, 2024, pp. 3533–3551. [33] B. Zhang, Y. Gao, C. Yu, B. Kuang, Z. Zhang, H. Kim, and A. Fu, “{TAPAS }: An efficient online {APT } detection with task-guided process provenance graph segmentation and analysis,” in 34th USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 25) , 2025, pp. 607–624. [34] H. Wang, W. Chen, L. Li, H. Pu, and Y. Zhang, “Dinspector: Dual factor graph attention mechanism for advanced persistent threat detection,” 

Engineering Applications of Artificial Intelligence , vol. 167, p. 113861, 2026. [35] A. Aly, E. Mansour, and A. Youssef, “Ocr-apt: Reconstructing apt stories from audit logs using subgraph anomaly detection and llms,” in Proceedings of the 2025 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security , 2025, pp. 261–275. [36] T. Chen, C. Dong, M. Lv, Q. Song, H. Liu, T. Zhu, K. Xu, L. Chen, S. Ji, and Y. Fan, “Apt-kgl: An intelligent apt detection system based on threat knowledge and heterogeneous provenance graph learning,” IEEE Transactions on Dependable and Secure Computing , 2022. [37] J.-J. Quisquater and D. Samyde, “Electromagnetic analysis (EMA): Measures and counter-measures for smart cards,” in International Con-ference on Research in Smart Cards . Springer, 2001, pp. 200–210. 

14 [38] S. Picek, G. Perin, L. Mariot, L. Wu, and L. Batina, “Sok: Deep learning-based physical side-channel analysis,” ACM Computing Surveys , vol. 55, no. 11, pp. 1–35, 2023. [39] Z. Zhan, Z. Zhang, S. Liang, F. Yao, and X. Koutsoukos, “Graphics peeping unit: Exploiting em side-channel information of gpus to eaves-drop on your neighbors,” in 2022 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP) . IEEE, 2022, pp. 1440–1457. [40] T. Ni, X. Zhang, and Q. Zhao, “Recovering fingerprints from in-display fingerprint sensors via electromagnetic side channel,” in Proceedings of the 2023 ACM SIGSAC conference on computer and communications security , 2023, pp. 253–267. [41] H. Chen, W. Jin, Y. Hu, Z. Ning, K. Li, Z. Qin, M. Duan, Y. Xie, D. Liu, and M. Li, “Eavesdropping on black-box mobile devices via audio amplifier’s emr.” in NDSS , 2024. [42] Y. Li, Z. Yan, W. Jin, Z. Ning, D. Liu, Z. Qin, Y. Liu, H. Zhu, and M. Li, “Gpsbuster: Busting out hidden gps trackers via msoc electromagnetic radiations,” in Proceedings of the 2024 on ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security , 2024, pp. 3302–3316. [43] Q. Zhang, D. Liu, X. Zhang, Z. Cao, F. Zeng, H. Jiang, and W. Jin, “Eye of sauron: {Long-Range } hidden spy camera detection and posi-tioning with inbuilt memory {EM } radiation,” in 33rd USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 24) , 2024, pp. 109–126. [44] H. T. Maia, C. Xiao, D. Li, E. Grinspun, and C. Zheng, “Can one hear the shape of a neural network?: Snooping the gpu via magnetic side channel,” in 31st USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 22) ,2022, pp. 4383–4400. [45] Y. Gao, H. Qiu, Z. Zhang, B. Wang, H. Ma, A. Abuadbba, M. Xue, A. Fu, and S. Nepal, “Deeptheft: Stealing dnn model architectures through power side channel,” in 2024 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP) . IEEE, 2024, pp. 3311–3326. [46] P. Horv´ ath, D. Lauret, Z. Liu, and L. Batina, “Sok: Neural network extraction through physical side channels,” in USENIX Security Sympo-sium , 2024. [47] P. Horvath, L. Chmielewski, L. Weissbart, L. Batina, and Y. Yarom, “{BarraCUDA }: Edge {GPUs } do leak {DNN } weights,” in 34th USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 25) , 2025, pp. 4017– 4034. [48] S. S. Clark, B. Ransford, A. Rahmati, S. Guineau, J. Sorber, W. Xu, and K. Fu, “WattsUpDoc: Power side channels to nonintrusively discover untargeted malware on embedded medical devices,” in 2013 USENIX Workshop on Health Information Technologies (HealthTech 13) . Wash-ington, D.C.: USENIX Association, Aug. 2013. [49] N. Sehatbakhsh, A. Nazari, H. A. Khan, A. G. Zajic, and M. Prvulovic, “EMMA: Hardware/software attestation framework for embedded sys-tems using electromagnetic signals,” in Proceedings of the 52nd Annual IEEE/ACM International Symposium on Microarchitecture , 2019, pp. 983–995. [50] D.-P. Pham, D. Marion, M. Mastio, and A. Heuser, “Obfuscation revealed: Leveraging electromagnetic signals for obfuscated malware classification,” in Proceedings of the 37th Annual Computer Security Applications Conference . ACM, 2021, pp. 706–719. [51] Y. Han, M. Chan, Z. Aref, N. O. Tippenhauer, and S. Zonouz, “Hiding in plain sight? on the efficacy of power side {Channel-Based } control flow monitoring,” in 31st USENIX security symposium (USENIX security 22) , 2022, pp. 661–678. [52] S. Sun, H. Zhang, X. Cui, and M. Zhu, “Electromagnetic side-channel hardware trojan detection based on transfer learning,” IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems II: Express Briefs , vol. 68, no. 9, pp. 3110– 3114, 2021. [53] T. Zhang, X. Guo, and R. Karri, “Hardware trojan detection through electromagnetic side-channel statistical analysis: A gold chip free approach,” in IEEE International Symposium on Hardware Oriented Security and Trust (HOST) , 2017, pp. 1–6. [54] L. Liao and F. Meng, “Hardware trojan detection and identification using electromagnetic side-channel leakage,” in 2024 9th International Conference on Intelligent Computing and Signal Processing (ICSP) .IEEE, 2024, pp. 328–333. [55] C. A. Remley, C. A. Grosvenor, R. T. Johnk, D. R. Novotny, P. D. Hale, M. McKinley, E. Antonakakis, and A. Karygiannis, “Electromagnetic signatures of wlan cards and network security,” in Proceedings of the Fifth IEEE International Symposium on Signal Processing and Information Technology , 2005, pp. 484–488. 

15 APPENDIX ADETAILED RESULTS OF CONTROLLED INTERVENTIONS 

Table VI reports the complete numerical results of the controlled-intervention experiments in RQ2. All conditions follow the same evaluation protocol as the original NICWhis-per configuration and are repeated over five independent runs. In addition to Macro-F1, which is used as the primary metric in the main text, we report Accuracy and the absolute Macro-F1 change relative to the original representation.                                                           

> TABLE VI DETAILED RESULTS OF THE CONTROLLED INTERVENTIONS USED IN RQ2. VALUES ARE MEAN ±STANDARD DEVIATION OVER FIVE RUNS .∆F1
> DENOTES THE CHANGE IN MACRO -F1 RELATIVE TO THE ORIGINAL REPRESENTATION .
> Condition Accuracy (%) Macro-F1 (%) ∆F1 (pp)
> Original 80 .53 ±5.14 80 .67 ±5.36 –Amplitude Norm. 76 .15 ±6.05 76 .17 ±6.15 −4.50
> Energy Norm. 78 .68 ±1.96 78 .51 ±2.18 −2.16
> Temporal Shuffle 77 .98 ±4.11 77 .59 ±4.22 −3.08
> Spectral Disruption 76 .83 ±2.02 76 .52 ±2.36 −4.15
> Time–Frequency Shuffle 61 .85 ±1.67 60 .82 ±2.13 −19 .85
> Random Labels 15 .38 ±7.06 12 .33 ±4.50 −68 .34

The detailed results reinforce the comparison reported in the main text. Normalizing global amplitude or energy reduces Macro-F1 by only 2.16–4.50 percentage points. Perturbing temporal or spectral organization individually produces re-ductions of a similar magnitude, at 3.08 and 4.15 points, respectively. In contrast, destroying the joint time–frequency organization results in a 19.85-point decrease. These controls should be interpreted comparatively rather than as independent estimates of feature importance. For example, the decrease under amplitude normalization indicates that absolute signal magnitude does contain useful informa-tion; the remaining 76 .17% Macro-F1 shows only that this cue is insufficient to explain the original recognition result. Likewise, temporal and spectral structure each contribute to classification while leaving complementary information avail-able when disrupted individually. The larger degradation under joint time–frequency shuffling is therefore the key observation: the recognizer benefits from structured information distributed across both dimensions. The random-label result provides a separate sanity control rather than a signal intervention. Its 12 .33% Macro-F1 is close to the eight-class chance level and confirms that meaningful correspondence between the measured observations and their behavior labels is required for successful recognition. APPENDIX BCONTROLLED SIGNAL PERTURBATIONS 

Table VII summarizes the controlled signal perturbations used in RQ4. All perturbations are applied to the raw test observations before the standard NICWhisper preprocessing and STFT transformation. The five models trained in RQ1 are kept fixed throughout these experiments. For amplitude scaling, each trace is multiplied by α ∈{0.8, 0.9, 1.0, 1.1, 1.2}. For additive Gaussian noise, zero-mean white Gaussian noise is added at SNR levels of 30, 25, 20, 15, and 10 dB. Given the RMS value rx of a trace, the noise standard deviation is 

σn = rx

10 SNR /20 .

Temporal perturbation shifts the observation by 1%, 2%, or 5% of its duration, in addition to the unshifted condition. For frequency perturbation, we apply deterministic band-selective attenuation to the raw observation in the Fourier domain. Let Z[k] = Fr {x}[k] denote the rFFT coefficients of a raw trace x, where k indexes the positive-frequency range from DC to the Nyquist frequency. For a selected frequency interval B = [ fl, f h) and attenuation factor γ, the perturbed spectrum is defined as 

eZ[k] = 

(

γZ [k], k ∈ B ,Z[k], otherwise .

The perturbed time-domain observation is then reconstructed as 

ex = F−1 

> r

{ eZ},

after which the standard NICWhisper preprocessing, STFT, log-power transformation, and spatial resizing are applied. Mild, Moderate, and Strong perturbations attenuate the 20– 25%, 18–32%, and 15–40% intervals of the positive-frequency range using amplitude factors of 0.75, 0.50, and 0.25, re-spectively. With the 1-MHz sampling rate, these intervals correspond to 100–125 kHz, 90–160 kHz, and 75–200 kHz. The power within the attenuated band is therefore scaled by 

γ2. All frequency perturbations are deterministic: the same frequency interval and attenuation factor are applied to every trace for a given severity level, without randomness.                    

> TABLE VII CONTROLLED SIGNAL PERTURBATIONS USED IN RQ4.
> Perturbation Evaluated settings
> Amplitude scaling 0.8,0.9,1.0,1.1,1.2
> Gaussian noise Clean, 30, 25, 20, 15, 10 dB Temporal shift 0% ,1% ,2% ,5%
> Frequency perturbation None; Mild: 20–25%, γ= 0 .75 ; Moderate: 18– 32%, γ= 0 .50 ; Strong: 15–40%, γ= 0 .25

APPENDIX CDATASET GENERATION PROTOCOL : T OOL VARIANTS AND 

PARAMETER CONFIGURATIONS 

This appendix details the tool implementations and exe-cution configurations used to construct the threat workloads for the execution-variation experiments in Section V-D. For each behavior, three distinct tools or implementations (Tool-A–Tool-C) are combined with three predefined behavior-specific parameter profiles (P1–P3). These profiles correspond to different combinations of multiple execution parameters 16 TABLE VIII TOOL VARIANTS AND BEHAVIOR -SPECIFIC CONFIGURATION DIMENSIONS USED FOR THREAT -WORKLOAD CONSTRUCTION IN RQ3. P1–P3 CORRESPOND TO DIFFERENT COMBINATIONS OF THE LISTED PARAMETERS .

Behavior Tool Variant Varied Configuration Dimensions Representative Command Flood 

Tool-A: hping3 Packet transmission mode and rate control; destination-port selection; source-address and packet-field randomization; burst timing and request scheduling. 

hping3 -S --flood -p 80 <IP> 

Tool-B: Metasploit SYN Flood auxiliary/dos/tcp/ synflood 

Tool-C: Custom Scapy Generator syn_flood.py --rate 1000 --rand-src 

PortScan 

Tool-A: Nmap SYN Scan Scan mode; host-discovery configuration (e.g., default discovery or 

-Pn ); timing template; target-port selection; probe retry/timeout settings; and scan-rate control. 

nmap -sS -Pn -T4 <IP> 

Tool-B: Masscan masscan -p1-65535 --rate=1000 <IP> 

Tool-C: Metasploit TCP Portscan auxiliary/scanner/ portscan/tcp 

ServiceProbe 

Tool-A: Nmap Version Detection Target-service selection; service/version probe mode; probe intensity; timeout and retry settings; service-discovery options; and auxiliary probe/script selection where supported. 

nmap -sV -T4 <IP> 

Tool-B: Amap amap -B <IP> <ports> 

Tool-C: Custom Banner Grabber banner_grab.py --ports 1-1000 

DirEnum 

Tool-A: Gobuster Wordlist selection; worker/thread count; recursion behavior; traversal depth; extension set; request timeout; and response/status filtering. 

gobuster dir -u <URL> -w <list> -t 50 

Tool-B: Dirb dirb <URL> <wordlist> 

Tool-C: Feroxbuster feroxbuster -u <URL> -w <list> -t 50 

PathDisc 

Tool-A: Dirsearch Path-dictionary selection; HTTP request method; extension set; request concurrency; recursion behavior; request scheduling; and header/options used during path probing. 

dirsearch -u <URL> 

Tool-B: WFuzz wfuzz -z file,<list> <URL>/FUZZ 

Tool-C: Custom Requests Fuzzer path_disc.py --wordlist <list> 

SQLi 

Tool-A: sqlmap Target-parameter selection; request method; injection technique and payload set; probing depth; level/risk configuration; crawling behavior; and DBMS-oriented fingerprinting options. 

sqlmap -u "<URL>?id=1" --batch 

Tool-B: Metasploit SQLi Scanner auxiliary/scanner/http/ sql_injection 

Tool-C: Custom Blind-SQLi Fuzzer sqli_fuzz.py --payloads <list> 

XSS 

Tool-A: XSSer Target-parameter coverage; GET/POST request selection; payload family and encoding; crawling behavior; injection context; DOM-related checks; and response-verification strategy. 

xsser -url "<URL>" --auto 

Tool-B: XSStrike xsstrike.py -u "<URL>?q=" 

Tool-C: Custom XSS Fuzzer xss_fuzz.py --payloads <list> 

rather than ordered intensity levels. Table VIII summarizes the tools and the configuration dimensions varied when con-structing these profiles. All threat workloads are executed in the presence of concurrent benign background traffic. For each behavior, the three tool variants are combined with the three parameter profiles, resulting in nine Tool ×Parameter execution identities. P1–P3 use different combinations of the behavior-specific configuration dimensions summarized above. Additional randomized micro-variations, including timing jit-ter, target or path selection, payload ordering, and request scheduling, are introduced during collection to avoid repeat-edly reproducing an identical execution trace. 17