Title: ROLoad-PMP: Securing Sensitive Operations for Kernels and Bare-Metal Firmware

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2608.13287v1

Published Time: Fri, 14 Aug 2026 01:04:20 GMT

Number of Pages: 12

Markdown Content:
> IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMPUTERS 1

# ROLoad-PMP: Securing Sensitive Operations for Kernels and Bare-Metal Firmware 

Wende Tan , Chenyang Li , Yangyu Chen , Yuan Li ,Chao Zhang , Member, IEEE , and Jianping Wu, Fellow, IEEE 

Abstract —A common way for attackers to compromise victim systems is hijacking sensitive operations (e.g., control-flow trans-fers) with attacker-controlled inputs. Existing solutions in general only protect parts of these targets and have high performance overheads, which are impractical and hard to deploy on systems with limited resources (e.g., IoT devices) or for low-level software like kernels and bare-metal firmware. In this paper, we present a lightweight hardware-software co-design solution ROLoad-PMP to protect sensitive operations from being hijacked for low-level software. First, we propose new instructions, which only load data from read-only memory regions with specific keys, to guarantee the integrity of pointees pointed by (potentially corrupted) data pointers. Then, we provide a program hardening mechanism to protect sensitive operations, by classifying and placing their operands into read-only memory with different keys at compile-time and loading them with ROLoad-PMP-family instructions at runtime. We have implemented an FPGA-based prototype of ROLoad-PMP based on RISC-V, and demonstrated an important defense application, i.e., forward-edge control-flow integrity. Results showed that ROLoad-PMP only costs few extra hardware resources ( < 1.40% ). Moreover, it enables many lightweight (e.g., with negligible overheads < 0.853% ) defenses, and provides broader and stronger security guarantees than existing hardware solutions, e.g., ARM BTI and Intel CET. 

Index Terms —Sensitive Operations, Pointee Integrity, RISC-V, Physical Memory Protection, Hardware-Software Co-design. 

I. I NTRODUCTION 

# MEMORY corruption is one of the most prevalent types of vulnerabilities. They are often exploited to corrupt operands of sensitive operations (denoted as sensitive sinks )with attacker-controlled inputs. Examples of sensitive sinks include operands used in indirect control-flow transfers, sensi-tive API invocations, allowlist checks, and application-specific operations (e.g., money transfers). Attackers can then launch various kinds of attacks by corrupting sensitive sinks. For instance, attackers can corrupt function pointers or return addresses used by indirect control-flow transfers [1], [2], or corrupt arguments of sensitive functions like system() and 

execve() , to hijack the control flow of a process and execute 

Manuscript created December 2023 and revised July 2024. Wende Tan and Jianping Wu are with the Department of Computer Science and Technology, Tsinghua University, Beijing, 100084, China. E-mail: twd2.me@gmail.com. Chenyang Li is with the Institute of Computer Science and Technology, Peking University, Beijing, 100871, China. Yangyu Chen is with the College of Computer Science, Chongqing University, Chongqing, 400044, China. Yuan Li is with Zhongguancun Laboratory, Beijing, 100094, China. E-mail: lydorazoe@gmail.com. Chao Zhang is with the Institute for Network Science and Cyberspace, Tsinghua University, Beijing, 100084, China. E-mail: chaoz@tsinghua.edu.cn. Chao Zhang and Yuan Li are the corresponding authors. 

arbitrary code. Attackers can also corrupt sensitive data like user ID, condition flags, or other metadata (e.g., configura-tions, policies, shadow memory, etc.) used in security checks to bypass deployed defenses or launch data-only attacks [3]. A straightforward but effective solution to mitigate this threat is taint analysis [4]. Such solutions in general track the data flow of tainted input data, and report attacks when tainted data is used at sensitive sinks. However, they all suffer from over-taint and under-taint issues [5], introduce overwhelming runtime overheads [6], and thus cannot be deployed in production environments. Many other defenses have been proposed to mitigate this threat. The first type of defenses protects data-flow integrity and stops attacks at source by confining corruptions to program states (e.g., sensitive data). For instance, CPI [7] prevents illegal memory writing from corrupting code pointers, software fault isolation solutions [8] isolate vulnerabilities from sensitive sinks, and StackGuard [9] detects corruptions to sensitive data by placing canaries on the stack. The second type of defenses secures sensitive sinks with randomization or isolation , such that attackers cannot find targets. For in-stance, Address Space Layout Randomization (ASLR) [10] randomizes the addresses of sensitive data. The third type of defenses performs security checks at sinks , where po-tentially corrupted data will be used. For example, control-flow integrity (CFI) [11]–[16] solutions validate targets before indirect control-flow transfers. However, these solutions in general only protect part of attack targets, or have very high runtime performance overheads as we will discuss in more details in Section VIII. In addition to software-based solutions, many hardware features and hardware-software co-design solutions have been proposed to facilitate or enhance mitigations. For in-stance, mechanisms like Intel Memory Protection Exten-sions (MPX) [17] and ARM Memory Tagging Extension (MTE) [18] are introduced to prevent memory corruption at source . Further, mechanisms like Intel Memory Protection Keys (MPK) [19], [20], ARM Domain Access Control Reg-ister (DACR) [21], and HDFI [22] can be used to isolate 

sensitive data, while IMIX [23] places sensitive data in a se-cure region only accessible by special instructions. Differently, ARM Pointer Authentication (PA) [15], [24] protects data-flow integrity by detecting corruptions before it is used, i.e., at sinks . Intel Control-flow Enforcement Technology (CET) [25] and ARM Branch Target Identification (BTI) [26] can validate 

0000–0000/00$00.00 © 2023 IEEE arXiv:2608.13287v1 [cs.AR] 13 Aug 2026 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMPUTERS 2

indirect-transfer targets and provide CFI support. However, many of these features are complex to implement or have high runtime overheads, and are hard to deploy on low-end devices. Therefore, an effective, lightweight, low-overhead, portable, and greatly compatible protection scheme is highly desirable. In this paper, we propose a hardware-software co-design solution ROLoad-PMP, consisting of a new set of hardware instructions, an optional Supervisor Binary Interface (SBI) im-plementation, and compiler extensions, to address these chal-lenges and protect the integrity of sensitive sinks. ROLoad-PMP provides a lighter form of data-flow integrity, namely 

pointee integrity , which ensures pointees are not corrupted (i.e., loaded from read-only memory tagged with specific keys or types). Given this security guarantee, attackers can only feed existing read-only (i.e., non-corrupted) data of expected type to sensitive operations, and thus can hardly launch attacks. We have built a prototype system supporting ROLoad-PMP on a field-programmable gate array (FPGA). Specifically, we extended the RISC-V instruction set architecture (ISA) and augmented the processor core in our prototype, a RISC-V Berkeley Out-of-Order Machine (BOOM) core, to support the ROLoad-PMP-family instructions. We also slightly modified the SBI implementation, OpenSBI, to set up read-only memory regions and their keys. Further, we extended the compiler in-frastructure LLVM to provide interfaces for programs to utilize this feature. Finally, we demonstrated a specific application of ROLoad-PMP, i.e., type-based forward-edge CFI, to show the effectiveness of ROLoad-PMP. Note that ROLoad-PMP is not limited to this defense application. We believe any defense solutions adopting allowlist checks can utilize this feature. 

We evaluated the hardware resource cost of the proto-type systems supporting ROLoad-PMP. Results showed that ROLoad-PMP takes few extra hardware resources in terms of FPGA area utilization ( < 1.40% ). We also evaluated the per-formance of the defense application based on ROLoad-PMP and found that it can provide a type-based CFI comparable to an existing practical solution [16] but with much lower runtime overheads ( < 0.853% ). This shows that ROLoad-PMP is practical and suitable for devices with limited resources (e.g., IoT devices). In summary, we make the following contributions:  

> •

We propose a novel lightweight hardware-software co-design solution ROLoad-PMP, which can provide pointee integrity guarantees to secure sensitive sinks.  

> •

We introduce a new set of instructions which only load data from read-only memory regions tagged with specific keys to provide pointee integrity, and augment a RISC-V BOOM core to support these instructions on the RISC-V ISA.  

> •

We build a prototype supporting this feature on an FPGA, and provide interfaces for software to use this feature.  

> •

We demonstrate an important specific defense application of this feature, illustrating its usefulness in practice.  

> •

We conduct a thorough evaluation of ROLoad-PMP, show-ing it is lightweight, effective, and practical. Note that this paper is a much extended version of our pre-viously published paper, ROLoad [27]. The original ROLoad solution relies on page permissions from memory management units (MMUs) and requires operating system kernels to set up page tables for user-space applications correspondingly. Thus, it is incapable of protecting operating system kernels themselves or bare-metal firmware, which directly runs on hardware. In this paper, we revise the ROLoad design, imple-ment it, and conduct experiments based on RISC-V Physical Memory Protection (PMP) rather than MMUs, on an out-of-order core. Then, we demonstrate that we can also use ROLoad-PMP to protect low-level software like operating system kernels or bare-metal firmware. As a complemen-tary solution to the original ROLoad solution, ROLoad-PMP greatly broadens the application scenarios of ROLoad. II. B ACKGROUND 

A. Sensitive Sinks 

In this paper, we denote operands of sensitive operations as sensitive sinks . There are many types of sensitive sinks in programs, including targets of indirect control-flow transfers (i.e., indirect calls, jumps, and returns), arguments of sensitive APIs (e.g., system() , printf() , or execve() ), iteration counts of loops, and metadata of security mechanisms (e.g., shadow memory used by sanitizers, control-flow graphs for CFI defenses, access control policy files, and system configu-rations). Applications may have application-specific sensitive sinks, e.g., recipient IP addresses of messages or bank accounts of money transfers. Most of them essentially have allowlists. A common way for attackers to compromise victim systems is corrupting sensitive sinks with attacker-controlled inputs, and bypass corresponding allowlists. Once adversaries can cor-rupt (or taint) sensitive sinks, they may tamper with the control flow to execute arbitrary code, launch data-only attacks, or break the functionality of programs. 

B. Physical Memory Protection (PMP) 

PMP allows the software to configure permissions, e.g., readable, writable, and executable, for physically contiguous physical memory regions. This feature is widely supported on modern ISAs, e.g., RISC-V PMP and ARM Memory Protection Unit (MPU) [28]. For instance, on RISC-V, PMP is configured through PMP control and status registers (CSRs), which can only be accessed by the highest-privileged M-mode code like SBI firmware or security monitors. However, operat-ing system kernels usually run on the less-privileged S-mode. Thus, an SBI implementation, e.g., OpenSBI, is required to set up PMP regions for S-mode code when necessary. III. D ESIGN 

A. Threat Model 

The assumptions made in our threat model are consistent with prior work in vulnerability mitigation [11], [15], [22], [23] and are outlined as follows.  

> •

We assume that one or more memory-corruption vulner-abilities exist in victim programs, allowing adversaries to repeatedly read from or write to arbitrary addresses that are permitted by memory permission settings.  

> •

We assume that DEP is widely deployed and the W ⊕Xpermission policy is applied.  

> •

We assume that the CSRs of PMP cannot be tampered after programs have initialized them. IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMPUTERS 3Sensitive Sink Sensitive Sink Possible Value 1 Malicious Value Sensitive Sink Value Pointer 1 Possible Value 1 Possible Value 2 Possible Value N … Possible Value 1    

> ROLoad
> Section .rodata
> (a) Not-hardened by ROLoad-PMP (b) Hardened by ROLoad-PMP
> Corrupted
> ROLoad
> Access Fault
> Fig. 1. Intuition of ROLoad-PMP’s Design.
> •

As a hardware-software co-design approach, we assume that the hardware is trusted and cannot be tampered. Hardware attacks like Rowhammer [29] or side-channel attacks [30]– [32] are out of the scope of this paper. 

B. Intuition 

Most sensitive sinks essentially have allowlists, which con-sist of immutable data. Examples include C++ virtual function tables, customized function pointer tables, format strings, and hardcoded configurations. On one hand, we can place these immutable data in tamper-proof areas to protect them from corruption (or taint). On the other hand, we can block tainted (or corrupted) data from being used at sensitive sinks, i.e., only data from the tamper-proof areas can be used at sensitive sinks, to mitigate memory-corruption attacks. In some cases, allowlists are not explicitly defined in programs. For instance, targets of indirect control transfers could be computed at compile-time or runtime, but are not directly specified in programs. In these cases, we could pre-compute the allowlists at compile-time. Moreover, different types of allowlists could be placed in different tamper-proof areas. For a given sensitive sink, only a specific allowlist is permitted, i.e., only a specific tamper-proof area can be used. In this way, attackers can only feed values in the specific type of allowlists to sensitive sinks, and can hardly launch attacks. Figure 1 demonstrates this intuition. 

C. Design Choices 

On real modern computer systems with physical memory protection (e.g., RISC-V PMP and ARM MPU [28]) or with paging (e.g., RISC-V, ARM, x86, etc.), intuitively, we can choose read-only memory regions (pages) as the tamper-proof areas to place allowlists. Different types of allowlists may be placed in different read-only regions which are tagged with different keys to differentiate from each other. At runtime, a sensitive sink can only use data loaded from a read-only memory region tagged with a specific key, which is untainted and of the expected type. In other words, for sensitive sinks, we guarantee the type and integrity of the loaded data (i.e., pointee), rather than intermediate values (e.g., pointers to data and pointers to pointers). To do so, we introduce a set of simple and lightweight ROLoad-PMP-family instructions: ROLoad-PMP-family instructions are a new set of 

load instructions. Unlike existing load instructions, the memory accessed by these new instructions is restricted to read-only regions with specific keys (tags) to guarantee pointee integrity. Violating this, i.e., a ROLoad-PMP-family instruction attempting to access a non-read-only region or a region with undesired key, will cause an access fault. The ROLoad-PMP design is analogous and complementary to DEP (W ⊕X), since DEP requires that only memory with execution permissions can be executed, while ROLoad-PMP requires that only memory with read-only permissions can be used at sensitive sinks. DEP focuses on the code, but ROLoad-PMP focuses on the data. We believe that both of them are necessary in a secure computer system design. As we will discuss later, the ROLoad-PMP-family instructions can be easily implemented, have practical security applications, and only introduce very low runtime overheads. In the rest of this paper, we mainly focus on systems with physical memory protection. However, our design of ROLoad-PMP is not limited to these systems, and the design and implementation on systems with paging mechanisms, i.e., memory management units (MMUs), are very similar and have been demonstrated in our previously published paper [27]. It makes ROLoad-PMP applicable to a wide range of systems, from low-end IoT devices to high-end servers. 

D. The ROLoad-PMP Solution 

Figure 2 shows the overview of ROLoad-PMP. It consists of the following three major components:  

> •

the processor core (e.g., a RISC-V BOOM core) at the bottom, responsible for supporting the ROLoad-PMP-family instructions, which will check the read-only permissions and the keys of pointees automatically.  

> •

an optional SBI implementation (e.g., OpenSBI) in the mid-dle, responsible for setting up the read-only memory regions and their keys for S-mode programs. M-mode programs can directly configure the CSRs of PMP for themselves and thus do not need this component.  

> •

the compiler infrastructure (e.g., Clang/LLVM) at the top of the system, responsible for hardening applications with the proposed ROLoad-PMP-family instructions. 

1) ROLoad-PMP-family instruction support: ROLoad-PMP-family instructions only load data from read-only mem-ory regions with specific keys. This permission check and key check are enforced by the processor core efficiently, providing strong security guarantees with low runtime overheads. Specifically, regardless of ISA, the PMP logic inside a processor can be conceptually divided into two parts, one for PMP matching and the other for PMP permission control. The former takes the CSRs of PMP and the memory operation as input, and outputs the matching PMP region. The latter checks whether the memory operation is legal for the matching region. If it is illegal, the processor generates an access fault. We logically augment the design of both parts. First, we augment the former part to support a newly introduced field, namely key , for each PMP region. In this way, each region is associated with a key, and different regions may share a same IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMPUTERS 4RISC-V BOOM with ROLoad-PMP instructions C/C++ Source Code OpenSBI with ROLoad-PMP support Clang/LLVM emitting ROLoad-PMP Application hardened by ROLoad-PMP PMP AND Gate Memory Operation with Physical Address ROLoad-PMP Enforcer If memory operation isROLoad, is the accessed region read-only? Does it have the correct key? Valid? Valid? Yes? PMP Permission Checker pmpcfg pmpaddr pmpkey          

> PMP Matching Logic
> Fig. 2. Overview of ROLoad-PMP’s Design. Components in grey are added ( pmpkey , ROLoad-PMP Enforcer, and the AND gate) or augmented (OpenSBI, Clang/LLVM, and the hardened application).

key. These keys can be used to represent the kinds, types, or classes of the data stored in these regions, and the actual meanings of the keys are defined by security applications. Then, ROLoad-PMP-family instructions will use these keys to ensure that the accessed region is the right one by comparing the keys of these instructions with the keys of the accessed regions. Specifically, for the latter part, we add a light extra logic to check whether the accessed region is read-only and whether its key is the same as the key of the requesting in-struction when ROLoad-PMP-family instructions are executed. If yes, then the ROLoad-PMP-family instructions behave in the same way as normal load instructions. Otherwise, the processor generates an access fault. The output of this logic is then ANDed with the original output of the permission control logic. Thus, the conventional permission check and the newly introduced ROLoad-PMP checks are done in parallel. 

2) SBI Interface: Since S-mode programs, e.g., operating system kernels, cannot access the CSRs of PMP, we provide an optional SBI interface in M-mode responsible for setting up the read-only memory regions and their keys for these S-mode programs, by helping them configure the CSRs of PMP. M-mode programs can directly configure the CSRs of PMP for themselves and thus do not need this component. 

3) Compiler Support: We extend the compiler to provide support for applications that want to utilize ROLoad-PMP. The compiler first determines where sensitive sinks are and 

what their allowlists are , and then places these allowlists into different read-only regions (e.g., sections in executable files) with different keys (i.e., different tamper-proof areas). Then, it slightly modifies target programs by replacing regular memory load instructions with ROLoad-PMP-family instructions at each sensitive sink. In addition, each ROLoad-PMP-family instruction is limited to access memory regions with a special key bound to the sensitive sink. It is worth noting that, this solution is widely applicable to low-level software like bare-metal applications or operating system kernels. IV. I MPLEMENTATION 

In this section, we dig into more details about implement-ing the ROLoad-PMP solution. For simplicity, we choose to extend the RISC-V ISA to support ROLoad-PMP-family                       

> TABLE I #L INES OF CODE OF EACH ROL OAD -PMP COMPONENT .
> Components Language #Lines of Code
> Added Modified Total RISC-V BOOM Chisel 62 32 94 OpenSBI C263 5268 LLVM Back-end C++ and TableGen 233 1234 Total –558 38 596

instructions, and implement a prototype based on an FPGA. The prototype consists of three major components and the number of lines of code of each component is listed in Table I. Firstly, we augment the processor core, a RISC-V BOOM core, to support ROLoad-PMP-family instructions on RISC-V ISA (Section IV-A). We also slightly modify the SBI implementation, OpenSBI, to set up the memory regions and their keys for S-mode programs (Section IV-B). Finally, we extend the compiler to generate proper machine code for ROLoad-PMP-family instructions (Section IV-C). 

A. RISC-V Processor 

We chose to extend the RISC-V ISA. The design of ROLoad-PMP-family instructions is consistent with RISC-V’s design philosophy, e.g., simple, easy to use, and with low cost. It can be integrated into RISC-V ISA with only slight changes. However, ROLoad-PMP is not limited to RISC-V. Instead, it can be applied to any system with PMP or paging support. 

Instruction Definition. Specifically, we extend the mnemonics of regular memory load operations, including ld 

and lw , and extend them to the corresponding ROLoad-PMP versions, e.g., ld.ro and lw.ro , respectively. Among them, the ld operation is the most common one, since most sensi-tive operations take full-word-length operands like pointers. Therefore, we optimize the ld.ro operation to reduce the program size when loading 64-bit words on a 64-bit system. Specifically, we extended the C extension of RISC-V and added the compressed encoding version of ld.ro , namely 

c.ld.ro , which is the ROLoad-PMP version of c.ld .

Instruction Encodings. Instruction encodings for ROLoad-PMP-family instructions should be chosen in such a way that they (1) are picked from custom instruction slots or reserved instruction slots, and (2) cause few extra decod-ing logic circuits. We finally pick an instruction encoding scheme for ld.ro -family instructions and the compressed version c.ld.ro which is similar to the existing ld -family instructions and c.ld . Specifically, the machine instruction encoding of ld.ro is the same as ld except that the 3rd least significant bit is changed from 0 to 1. The machine instruction encoding of c.ld.ro is also the same as c.ld except that the three most significant bits are changed from 011 to 100 .At the same time, to encode keys into machine instructions, we change the meaning of the immediate (up to 12 bits) in these instruction encodings from address offsets to desired keys. 

Instruction Decoding. The instruction decoder is one of the most complicated components within a processor core. After picking the instruction encodings, we augment the classes Instructions , RVCDecoder , XDecode , and IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMPUTERS 5

X64Decode in the RISC-V BOOM core to generate de-coders of the newly introduced ld.ro -family instructions and 

c.ld.ro . Once these instructions are decoded, the core will issue load micro-operations with a new type of memory oper-ations, which carries the keys decoded from the instructions. We also add this new type to MemoryOpConstants , which will later be used by the NBDTLB 1 to perform the PMP region permission and key checks. 

PMP Region Permission and Key Checking. The 

pmpaddr and pmpcfg CSRs store the address ranges and the corresponding permissions of all PMP regions. To associate each PMP region with a key, we first introduce a set of new CSRs, namely pmpkey , to store the keys of all regions. Then, we augment the PMP matching logic, i.e., the PMPChecker 

class, to pass the key of the matching PMP region along with the ordinary permissions to the NBDTLB for further checks. Finally, we add the extra read-only check logic explained in Section III-D into the NBDTLB . It ensures that ROLoad-PMP-family instructions only load data from read-only regions, otherwise an access fault is triggered. In addition, given the keys, the NBDTLB will also check whether the keys of memory operations and the keys of accessed regions match (the key check logic). This ensures that ROLoad-PMP-family instructions only load data from regions with correct keys (i.e., the right regions), otherwise an access fault is triggered. 

B. SBI Interface 

To provide an SBI interface for S-mode programs to set up the read-only memory regions and their keys, we augment OpenSBI and add a set_pmp_ro() function. This function can be invoked via an SBI call from the S-mode code, set the specified memory region as read-only, and associate the region with the specified key. Furthermore, this function will first check whether there is already a region with the specified key and if so, the function will refuse to modify the region to keep the region intact once it has been set up. 

C. LLVM Compiler Back-end 

A compiler back-end emits low-level machine instructions for programs written in high-level programming languages. We extend the RISC-V back-end of LLVM compiler infrastructure to translate ROLoad-PMP-family instructions to machine code and provide interfaces for applications to utilize via LLVM intermediate representation (LLVM IR) instructions. Following the design pattern of LLVM, we add the descrip-tions of ld.ro -family instructions into the td files of RISC-V target. This allows the assembler to recognize ld.ro -family instructions and generate correct machine code. 

Metadata Interface. The interfaces are a new type of metadata, namely ROLoad-PMP-md metadata. Users (e.g., defense solutions) associate LLVM IR load instructions of interest with this metadata to indicate that these IR load instructions need to be further protected by ROLoad-PMP-family instructions. Keys that will be encoded into ROLoad-PMP-family instructions are stored in the metadata as well. We also associate this type of metadata with each machine                  

> 1Actually, RISC-V BOOM cores perform PMP checks in the TLB modules. TABLE II #L INES OF CODE OF THE ROL OAD -PMP-BASED DEFENSE APPLICATION .
> Components Language #Lines of Code
> Added Modified Total LLVM Pass C++ 558 0558 Linux Kernel C238 0238 Total –796 0796

memory operand ( MachineMemOperand ) when the com-piler performs pattern matching on the DAG (Directed Acyclic Graph) to select and generate machine instructions. 

Instruction Emission. To emit ld.ro -family instructions, we write a machine code pass to visit all LLVM machine instructions and replace all ld -family instructions of interest, whose machine memory operands have ROLoad-PMP-md 

metadata, with ld.ro -family instructions. Since ld.ro -family instructions no longer have any address offset encoded in immediates, we may also insert extra addi instructions. In addition, the c.ld.ro instruction, i.e., the compressed version, is automatically emitted by the LLVM assembler when conditions are met, just like the existing compressed versions of regular load instructions, as long as the instruction descriptions of c.ld.ro have been added. V. A PPLICATIONS 

Programs can utilize the ROLoad-PMP-family instructions to protect the integrity of sensitive sinks, i.e., operands used in sensitive operations. In this section, we demonstrate an important specific defense application of ROLoad-PMP, which protects general forward-edge control-flow transfers, and then discuss other potential applications. 

A. Type-Based Forward-Edge CFI 

Programs have many general indirect calls, especially the programs with callback functions or dynamic dispatching, e.g., the Linux kernel. Targets of these indirect control-flow transfers (ICT) are sensitive sinks, too. In practice, adversaries can exploit vulnerabilities to corrupt these ICT targets and launch control-flow hijacking attacks. CFI is a well-known defense solution against control-flow hijacking attacks, which in general restricts the ICT targets to a limited set at runtime. Some CFI solutions [14]–[16] provide a type-based CFI policy, which allows each ICT to transfer to address-taken functions with matching types. There are several kinds of ICTs, including returns, indirect calls and jumps. In our prototype, we only focus on the most common forward-edge control-flow transfers, i.e., indirect calls, and aim at providing a type-based CFI policy. 

1) Defense Principles: ROLoad-PMP can be utilized to enforce the same policy as type-based forward-edge CFI. Under this policy, the legitimate transfer targets of indirect calls are the entry points of address-taken functions, whose addresses must be taken (i.e., used) in the source code and will keep intact at runtime. Besides, the function types (i.e., the types of parameters and return values) of legitimate functions should match the expected function types of the indirect calls. Therefore, we first identify all address-taken functions and their types, and place their addresses into read-only memory IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMPUTERS 6                                                                                                       

> 1typedef void (*func1_t)(...); 2typedef int (*func2_t)(...); 3func1_t func1; 4func2_t func2; 5// ... 6func1 =foo; 7// ... 8func2 =bar; 9// ... 10 func1(); 11 func2();
> Listing 1. Pseudo code of two indirect call examples.
> 1-lui a0, 0x11 2-addi a0, a0, 604 #foo 3+lui a0, 0x67 4+addi a0, a0, 8#gfpt_foo 5sd a0, -1608(gp) #func1 6... 7-lui a0, 0x11 8-addi a0, a0, 616 #bar 9+lui a0, 0x68 #gfpt_bar 10 sd a0, -1600(gp) #func2
> Listing 2. Assembly code of initializing 2 function pointers for ROLoad-PMP. gfpt refers to global function pointer tables.
> 1ld a0, -1608(gp) #func1 2+ld.ro a0, (a0), 13jalr a0 4ld a0, -1600(gp) #func2 5+ld.ro a0, (a0), 26jalr a0 78+.section .rodata.key.1 9+gfpt_foo: .quad foo 10 +.section .rodata.key.2 11 +gfpt_bar: .quad bar
> Listing 3. Assembly code of two indirect calls, hardened by ROLoad-PMP.

regions with keys grouped by the types. Then, we modify indirect call instructions to only use function addresses loaded from these read-only memory regions with matching keys, rather than using function addresses stored in mutable function pointer variables as before. In this way, ROLoad-PMP ensures that indirect calls only transfer to address-taken functions with correct types, providing a type-based forward-edge CFI. Listings 1, 2, and 3 demonstrate an example of this ap-plication. In this example, two global function pointer tables (GFPTs) are created and put in read-only memory regions with the keys of 1 and 2, and are both initialized to an array of addresses of address-taken functions, i.e., foo and bar 

(Lines 8 ∼11 in Listing 3). Function pointers in the program are replaced with pointers pointing to GFPT items, as shown in Listing 2. When function pointers are used, the corresponding items are loaded by ld.ro instructions (Lines 2 and 5 in Listing 3), ensuring that the function addresses are loaded from the read-only arrays (i.e., GFPTs) with the correct keys of 1 and 2. Then, these items, which are the actual addresses of the callee functions, are used by the following indirect call instructions (Lines 3 and 6 in Listing 3). 

2) Implementation Details: Function pointers in C or C++ programs in general store addresses of callee functions. To implement a CFI mechanism utilizing ROLoad-PMP, we need to make original function pointers point to read-only memory regions with specific keys, where real function pointers are stored. We therefore write an LLVM optimization pass to analyze LLVM IR and transform instructions that define or use function pointers. The number of lines of C++ code to implement this application is shown in Table II. Specifically, we first compute arrays of addresses of func-tions by iterating over the function list and the function alias list. For each function or function alias, we hash the string representation of its function type to compute a key, and then put the function address in the corresponding array according to the key. Functions whose addresses are not used, i.e., non-address-taken functions, are automatically removed from the arrays during linking, so these arrays only hold the addresses of address-taken functions. These arrays are named gfpt s in the code and are stored as constants into read-only regions with the corresponding keys. Secondly, we identify all use points of function addresses, and augment the program to replace function addresses at these points with pointers pointing to gfpt items. These use points are usually the definition points of function pointers, including (1) initializers of global function pointers, (2) store 

instructions that store addresses into function pointers, (3) 

call instructions that take function addresses as arguments, (4) 

return instructions that return function addresses, and so on. In other words, these program points create (aka. generate )function pointers from the function addresses. Finally, we identify all use points of function pointers that need the actual function addresses. Since we have replaced function pointers with pointers to gfpt items, we have to restore the original (i.e., actual) function addresses for function pointers. We insert a ROLoad-PMP-family load instruction (i.e., an LLVM IR load instruction with ROLoad-PMP-md 

metadata) with our computed key before each use point to load the actual function addresses from the modified function pointers. The key is computed from the used function type using the same algorithm. This ROLoad-PMP-family load instruction ensures the integrity of function addresses to use, and thus secures these use points. These use points in general are sensitive sinks. Some of them are direct dereferences of function pointers, which need the actual function addresses immediately, including indirect call instructions. Other use points may also need the actual function addresses but will dereference function pointers later. These use points include (1) call instructions that call functions located in unprotected libraries and take function pointers as arguments, (2) inline assembly codes that take function pointers as operands, (3) 

compare instructions that compare with other function point-ers, and so on. In addition, some use points do not need the actual function addresses, e.g., a store instruction that copies a function pointer to another. Function pointers at these use points are kept unmodified. 

B. Other Application Scenarios 

It is worth noting that the aforementioned application re-veals a defense principle: the targets allowed in sensitive sinks are in kinds of allowlists, i.e., sets of legitimate functions. We believe that allowlist checks all can be enhanced by ROLoad-PMP, and defenses utilizing allowlist checks can thus benefit from it. Specifically, given an allowlist check, we can first place the allowlists into read-only memory regions tagged with unique keys, and then transform the allowlist check to a ROLoad-PMP check, i.e., ensuring the targets are loaded from read-only regions tagged with the correct keys. It thus ensures that the targets are in the allowlists, prohibiting many attacks with low overheads. For instance, it can be applied to backward control-flow transfers (i.e., return instructions) too, where the allowlists are sets of legitimate return sites. It can also be applied to operating system kernels in which many structure pointers IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMPUTERS 7

(e.g., device descriptors, operation structures) have limited value choices, where the sets of available device descriptors or operation structures can be viewed as the allowlists. Due to the space limitation, we skip the demonstration of these defense applications and leave it as future work. VI. E VALUATION 

In this section, we evaluate our prototype system featuring ROLoad-PMP and applications hardened by ROLoad-PMP-family instructions by answering the following questions:  

> •

RQ1: Lightweight Hardware Implementation: Is it low-cost and lightweight to implement ROLoad-PMP-family instructions on hardware (e.g., on FPGAs)? (Section VI-A)  

> •

RQ2: Low Runtime Overheads: Does a system with ROLoad-PMP run as fast as an unmodified system? How much execution time overhead do applications hardened by ROLoad-PMP incur? (Section VI-B1)  

> •

RQ3: Strong Security Guarantees: What security guar-antees do ROLoad-PMP and applications hardened by ROLoad-PMP provide? (Section VI-B2) 

A. Hardware Resource Cost 

To evaluate the hardware resource cost of ROLoad-PMP-family instructions, we instantiate the original and the modified RISC-V BOOM cores and synthesize them on an FPGA. Table III shows the overall configurations of our prototype systems. Note that we have not instantiated a floating-point unit (FPU), i.e., F and D extensions of RISC-V ISA, to highlight extra hardware resource cost caused by ld.ro in-structions. We then integrate the above RISC-V BOOM cores with necessary peripherals, i.e., a Xilinx Memory Interface Generator, a Xilinx AXI Ethernet Subsystem, and a 64KiB boot ROM, to build the prototype systems. These systems can boot the Linux operating system from a network. We synthesize and map our prototype systems to a Xilinx Kintex UltraScale FPGA ( XCKU060 ) on a commodity FPGA development board using Xilinx Vivado 2022.2. The target frequency of synthesis is Ftarget = 100 .00 MHz, which is approximately the maximum frequency of the RISC-V BOOM cores on our FPGA. We also synthesize the RISC-V BOOM cores out of context without peripheral to evaluate the hard-ware resource cost of RISC-V BOOM cores themselves. The hardware resource cost, the worst setup slack (WSS), and the maximum frequency Fmax are presented in Table IV. The hardware resource cost is measured in terms of the number of lookup tables (LUTs) and flip-flops (FFs). The maximum frequency is calculated by Fmax = 1  

> 1
> Ftarget −WSS

.       

> TABLE III CONFIGURATIONS OF OUR PROTOTYPE SYSTEM .
> Components Configurations ISA Extensions RV64IMAC with M, S, and U modes
> BOOM Config SmallBooms
> Caches 16 KiB 4-way L1I$, 16 KiB 4-way L1D$
> TLBs 32-entry I-TLB, 8-entry D-TLB
> PMP 16 entries (regions)
> Peripherals Xilinx MIG for 4 GiB DDR4 components Xilinx AXI Ethernet, 64 KiB Boot ROM

The results show that the extra hardware resource cost on an FPGA measured in terms of the number of LUTs and FFs are both low ( < 1.40% ) when the RISC-V BOOM core with 

ld.ro instructions is synthesized without peripheral as well as when it is integrated and synthesized in a whole system. Besides, the maximum frequency of the system supporting 

ld.ro instructions is approximately the same as that of the system without ld.ro instructions, since our modifications do not affect the critical path of the logic circuits of the processor core. This gives us evidence that ROLoad-PMP-family instructions can be adopted in real-world systems with low hardware cost. 

B. Defense Application Evaluation 

As we have mentioned, ROLoad-PMP can be utilized to secure sensitive sinks and harden programs. In this section, we evaluate its performance and security guarantees based on the specific application, i.e., type-based forward-edge CFI. 

1) Performance: To evaluate the performance impact of the security application mentioned in Section V, we measured the overall performance of the Linux kernel hardened by the application. To compare, we also measured the Linux kernel hardened by the competitor, i.e., KCFI [16]. KCFI is a practical type-based forward-edge CFI solution that has already been integrated into the LLVM compiler suite and can be easily enabled through a compilation flag for the Linux kernel. Thus, we chose to compare ROLoad-PMP with KCFI. However, it would be better to compare ROLoad-PMP with hardware-assisted solutions, but we did not find such solutions that are as practical as KCFI. Note that CFI solutions for operating system kernels usually require the page tables of the kernels to be protected [33]. Otherwise, these solutions would be bypassed. In this paper, we only use the security application to demonstrate the practicality of applying ROLoad-PMP to low-level software and evaluate the performance impact of ROLoad-PMP. Thus, protecting page tables is out of the scope of this paper. We used the Linux kernel 6.6 with defconfig plus necessary device drivers for our prototype system. We im-plemented the security application mentioned in Section V-A based on LLVM 18 ( 88dd9813 ). According to the hardware configurations shown in Table III, excluding the PMP entries used by OpenSBI, there were 11 PMP regions available. We used all of them and assigned a unique key for each region. Totally, we used 11 unique keys. To utilize ROLoad-PMP for the kernel, we also augmented the initialization procedure and the linker script of the kernel to set up the read-only memory regions through SBI calls. The number of lines of code is presented in Table II. We then conducted all the following experiments on three experimental setups: (1) the system and kernel without any modifications (i.e., the baseline), (2) the system without processor modifications and the kernel hardened by KCFI (i.e., KCFI), and (3) the system with ROLoad-PMP and the kernel hardened by ROLoad-PMP (i.e., ROLoad-PMP). All benchmarks themselves were unmodified. Specifically, for the ROLoad-PMP setup, we did not notice significant time usage increments of the LLVM compilation and the system initialization procedure. Since they only need IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMPUTERS 8                                    

> TABLE IV HARDWARE RESOURCE COST OF SYSTEMS WITHOUT AND WITH ROL OAD -PMP WHEN SYNTHESIZED ON AN FPGA.
> RISC-V BOOM cores Whole Systems
> #LUT %#FF %#LUT %#FF %WSS (ns) Fmax (MHz)
> without ld.ro 57,561 –38,111 –82,318 –73,561 –0.177 101.81
> with ld.ro 57,882 +0.55766 38,641 +1.39067 82,622 +0.36929 74,103 +0.73680 0.188 101.91

to be done once before the system boots, we believe that their influence will be negligible. 

Microbenchmarks. We first leverage LMBench 3.0-a9 as our microbenchmark suite to evaluate the performance impact on system calls and trap handlers. We execute each benchmark 1,000 times and report the average relative performance over-heads in Figure 3. The results show that, on average, ROLoad-PMP has a negligible performance impact on system calls and trap handlers. 

Macro Benchmarks. To evaluate the overall performance of the system with ROLoad-PMP and the kernel hardened by ROLoad-PMP, we also run a CPU-intensive benchmark, i.e., the SPEC CPU2006 benchmark suite, as well as two kernel-intensive benchmarks, i.e., Nginx 1.24.0 benchmark and Redis 7.2.3 benchmark. Specifically, since we have not enabled the FPU, we use the integral subset of the SPEC CPU2006, i.e., SPEC CINT2006. Among them, 400.perlbench is excluded due to compilation failure. For the Nginx benchmark, we measure its HTTP throughput using 10,000 requests with 100 concurrent requests. We repeat this experiment 10 times and report the relative performance overheads calculated by using the average throughput. For the Redis benchmark, we use 100,000 requests for each test with 50 parallel connections. Then, we compute the relative performance overheads. Fig-ures 4, 5, and 6 show the results. Since all the benchmarks can complete successfully, we can confirm that the kernel hardened by ROLoad-PMP works well. The results show that the average execution-time over-heads of the CPU-intensive SPEC CINT2006 benchmarks on the hardened kernel are negligible ( < 0.030% ), which are about one order of magnitude lower than its competitor KCFI ( < 0.289% ). Besides, the results of the kernel-intensive benchmarks show that the average performance overheads of Empty Syscall stat() fstat() open()/close() select() 10 TCP fds select() 100 TCP fds fork()+exit() fork()+execve() fork()+/bin/sh sigaction() Signal Dispatch Protection Fault mmap() Page Fault Pipe I/O UNIX Socket I/O Pipe I/O BW UNIX Socket I/O BW 10            

> 5
> 0510 15 Performance Overheads (%)  KCFI ROLoad-PMP
> Fig. 3. Performance overheads of LMBench microbenchmarks on the Linux kernel hardened by ROLoad-PMP and its competitor KCFI. BW refers to the bandwidth. 401.bzip2 403.gcc 429.mcf 445.gobmk 456.hmmer 458.sjeng 462.libquantum 464.h264ref 471.omnetpp 473.astar 483.xalancbmk mean geo mean 0.4
> 0.2
> 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 Execution-Time Overheads (%) KCFI ROLoad-PMP
> Fig. 4. Execution-time overheads of SPEC CINT2006 benchmarks on the Linux kernel hardened by ROLoad-PMP and its competitor KCFI. 1416 64 256 1024 mean geo mean File Size (KiB) 0.5
> 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 Performance Overheads (%)  KCFI ROLoad-PMP
> Fig. 5. Performance overheads of Nginx on the Linux kernel hardened by ROLoad-PMP and its competitor KCFI. 10,000 requests in total, 100 concurrent requests.

the Nginx and Redis benchmarks are both low ( < 0.305% and 

< 0.853% , respectively), which are also much lower than its competitor KCFI ( < 2.24% and < 2.48% , respectively). We also notice some negative overheads. As our transforma-tion slightly modified the code and data memory layout of the applications, the TLB and cache hit rates changed. Thus, we believe that the negative overheads were due to the influence of the changed hit rates overwhelming the actual overheads because the actual overheads were too low. We can conclude that the defense application that we have demonstrated introduces very low overheads. It implies that 

defense solutions that utilize ROLoad-PMP can protect real-world software with very little extra runtime cost .

2) Security: The security guarantees provided by ROLoad-PMP depend on the underlying hardware primitives, i.e., the ROLoad-PMP-family instructions, and its applications. We compare the ROLoad-PMP-family instructions with others later in Section VIII. The security application mentioned in Section V restricts the targets of indirect calls to those with the matching types (i.e., keys), and thus implements a type-based CFI. It provides security guarantees stronger than coarse-grained CFI solutions IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMPUTERS 9PING_INLINE PING_MBULK SET GET INCR LPUSH RPUSH LPOP RPOP SADD HSET SPOP ZADD ZPOPMIN LRANGE_100 LRANGE_300 LRANGE_500 LRANGE_600 MSET XADD mean geo mean 0.5  

> 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 Performance Overheads (%) KCFI ROLoad-PMP
> Fig. 6. Performance overheads of Redis on the Linux kernel hardened by ROLoad-PMP and its competitor KCFI. 100,000 requests for each test, 50 parallel connections.

(e.g. [12], [13]), which do not take function types into consid-eration. Furthermore, the type-based CFI has been extensively studied and its advantages and weaknesses are well-known [1], [11], [16], [34]. We can confirm that our ROLoad-PMP solution provides comparable security guarantees but with much lower runtime performance overheads .VII. D ISCUSSION 

In this section, we discuss the advantages and limitations of ROLoad-PMP and its applications. 

Pointer Transitivity and Pointee Reuse Attacks. It is important to note that like prior lightweight hardware-based solutions, e.g., DEP [35], ARM BTI [26], and Intel CET [25], our ROLoad-PMP solution may also suffer from pointee reuse attacks as pointees in read-only memory regions with keys may be reused by adversaries [1]. For example, a sophisticated adversary can corrupt pointers to data or pointers to pointers, and so on, to reuse existing data in any read-only regions with matching keys. These crafted pointers may pass pointee integrity checks enforced by ROLoad-PMP-family instruc-tions, since they do point to read-only regions with correct keys. However, we argue that the remaining attack surface is minimal and this attack is much harder to realize in practice, as attackers can only feed values in the specific allowlists to sensitive operations. In the future, we can lengthen memory region keys when possible or use more levels of indirection to achieve longer equivalent keys under existing ROLoad-PMP hardware. Users can balance the key length and security guarantees. 

Portability. Although we implement and demonstrate ROLoad-PMP on the RISC-V ISA, the design of ROLoad-PMP-family instructions is architecture-independent. For ISAs that are also reduced instruction sets , including widely-used ARM ISA, we can easily implement ROLoad-PMP-family instructions on these architectures in the same way that we have done on the RISC-V ISA. This is left as our future work. For complex instruction sets , especially x86 ISA, almost all arithmetic and logic instructions may load from or store to the memory. Instead of introducing new instructions, we can introduce a new instruction prefix, which indicates that memory operands of the following instruction have to be loaded from read-only memory regions with specific keys. 

Limitations. As we have mentioned in Section V-B, we believe that ROLoad-PMP can protect sensitive sinks whose legitimate value sets (i.e., allowlists) can be determined during compilation time and do not change at runtime, with low overheads. However, ROLoad-PMP is not suitable for sensitive sinks whose allowlists cannot be determined during compila-tion time (e.g., session keys generated by key-exchange pro-tocols) since we cannot pre-compute these mutable allowlists and put them into read-only memory. VIII. R ELATED WORK 

In this section, we review some related defense mechanisms and compare ROLoad-PMP with them. 

Data Execution Prevention (DEP). DEP is a defense method to defeat code injection and code corruption attacks by preventing any (writable) data from being executed [35]. This can be implemented both in hardware by adding apermission bit to page table entries (e.g., AMD NX-bit, Intel XD-bit, ARM XN-bit, and RISC-V X-bit), and in software by emulating. For modern systems with these permission bits, loaders and operating systems configure page tables with the W⊕X policy to realize DEP. The basic ideas of DEP and ROLoad-PMP are very simple and similar, since ROLoad-PMP requires that sensitive operations are only fed with read-only data with matching keys, while DEP (W ⊕X) requires that only read-only data can be executed as instructions. 

Control-Flow Integrity (CFI). As we have mentioned, CFI is a well-known defense solution against control-flow hijacking attacks [11], [16], which in general restricts the ICT targets to a limited set at runtime. Type-based CFI schemes include not only pure-software-based KCFI [16], but also PARTS [15] utilizing ARM PA, and others [14]. The runtime overheads of these CFI mechanisms have been reduced as much as possible, but are still rather high for low-end systems (e.g., IoT devices). Even for PARTS using hardware feature, the performance overheads are still around 

1% . Compared with these mechanisms with the same security strength, the performance overheads of the CFI scheme men-tioned in Section V-A are almost negligible. Thus, ROLoad-PMP is more practical on systems with limited resources. Several recent hardware features have been proposed to facilitate CFI mechanisms, including Intel CET [25] and ARM BTI [26]. Intel CET includes a shadow stack and an indirect branch tracking (IBT) mechanism, and requires to employ an extra architectural state, which needs to be maintained when the operating system kernel is performing context switching or handling interrupts. Extra architectural states could increase the complexity of the operating system kernel as well as the processor core. Similarly, ARM BTI also needs some extra architectural states. Although they are perfect hardware features regardless of the extra architectural states, they only focus on CFI. Besides, the security strength of Intel IBT and ARM BTI is weaker than type-based CFI solutions, since they only provide coarse-grained CFI. 

Data-Flow Integrity (DFI). DFI tries to ensure that the data-flow graph of user-mode programs [36], [37] or operating system kernels [38] is not violated at runtime. Data flows have their sources and sinks, and DFI mechanisms can be classified into three groups: (1) mechanisms that prevent maliciously memory writing at sources, (2) mechanisms that IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMPUTERS 10 Prevention at Sources Data-Flow Isolation Detection at Sinks Data Indirect Calls Virtual Function Calls  

> system() execve() printf()
> Normal Write Malicious Write Flow 1 Normal Flow 1 Write Flow 2
> Fig. 7. Data-Flow Integrity. Its mechanisms are divided into three groups, i.e., prevention at sources (e.g., Intel MPX, ARM MTE), data-flow isolation (e.g., HDFI, IMIX, Intel MPK, ARM DACR, Intel SMEP, Intel SMAP, ARM PAN, RISC-V SUM), and detection at sinks (e.g., ARM PA, ROLoad-PMP).

isolate sensitive data flows from normal data flows, and (3) mechanisms that detect attacks and validate the integrity of data at sinks, as shown in Figure 7. 

a) Prevention at sources: Intel MPX [17] is a hardware extension designed to efficiently perform bound checks and prevent corresponding memory corruption attacks. However, due to maintenance burdens and lack of industry uses, its support is removed. ARM MTE [18] provides an ingenious mechanism of associating words with tags , and can be used to build hardware-assisted address sanitizers [39]. However, it will take considerable hardware resources to implement and take mandatory time and memory overheads to store, set, and update the fine-grained tags. Our prior experiments on Google Pixel 8 Pro (Tensor G3 processor) using Geekbench 6.2.0 show that ARM MTE introduces ∼ 7% execution-time overheads and ∼ 3.125% memory-usage overheads. 

b) Data-flow isolation: Some solutions provide DFI by isolating sensitive data like code pointers. HDFI [22] can provide strong data-flow isolation and security guarantees by associating each word (or several words) with one-bit tags. However, because of these tags, it is complex and also requires considerable hardware resources to implement. Besides, the actual hardware resource cost is not reported [22]. Similar to HDFI, IMIX [23] is a lightweight page-grained data-flow isolation solution, which associates pages with one-bit tags. It is similar to other isolation mechanisms and provides a coarse-grained version. And, appropriate deployments of these mechanisms may require more manual effort. Intel MPK [19], [20] and ARM DACR [21] both divide memory pages into several keys or domains , and provide handy control registers for users to adjust page permissions without context switching or invalidating TLBs. They can be used to implement data-flow isolation schemes [40]. Intel SMAP-bit (Supervisor Mode Access Prevention) [19], preventing kernel-mode code from accessing user pages, is also a kind of isolation mechanisms that isolate kernel data from user data [41]. Similarly, Intel SMEP-bit (Supervisor Mode Execution Prevention) [19] prevents processors from executing user code in kernel mode, isolating kernel code from user code. ARM PAN-bit (Privileged Access Never) has the same functionalities as Intel SMAP-bit [42]. RISC-V prohibits kernel mode from executing user code by default, and provides a SUM-bit (permit Supervisor User Memory access) having similar functionalities to Intel SMAP-bit. 

c) Detection at sinks: Solutions like ARM PA [24] and StackGuard [9] can detect corruption before sensitive data are used. The hardware feature ARM PA enables defenses (e.g., PARTS [15]) to validate the integrity of pointers at all sinks (i.e., pointer dereference points). Specifically, pointers’ Pointer Authentication Codes (PACs) are computed from pointers and contexts (i.e., modifiers) using cryptographic hash functions (e.g., QARMA [43]) at sources. However, these cryptographic hash functions may increase the area and power consumption of processor cores as it will take more hardware resources [43]. Attackers can also reuse existing pointers with PACs at any sensitive sink that uses the same modifier, so the security strength of ARM PA is equivalent to that of ROLoad-PMP when the used length of modifiers equals the length of memory region keys. In addition, ARM PA relies on the kernel to protect encryption keys, and thus is not suitable for systems without kernel-user separation. Instead, ROLoad-PMP also works at sinks, but provides a lightweight and practical pointee integrity mechanism, suitable for a wide range of systems. 

d) Hiding-Based Defenses: Randomization can hide se-crets in random locations in memory space, and thus can protect secrets from corruption. For example, ASLR is an efficient defense technique by hiding code and data, but is found vulnerable to information leak attacks or guessing-based attacks [10]. Morpheus [44] is a hardware randomiza-tion solution, which periodically re-randomizes and encrypts addresses at runtime by hardware. It provides very strong security guarantees, but the complexity and overheads hinder its deployment. EXecute-Only Memory [45] hides code and mitigates code reuse attacks by denying all executable data (i.e., code) being read. Like DEP, it can be also implemented by configuring proper page permissions (e.g., only setting X-bit on RISC-V ISA). However, it cannot protect other types of secrets. IX. C ONCLUSION 

In this paper, we have presented a lightweight hardware-software co-design solution ROLoad-PMP to stop tainted data from being used at sensitive sinks. The core of ROLoad-PMP is a new set of instructions that only load data from read-only memory regions tagged with specific keys, which provide pointee integrity guarantees. ROLoad-PMP can be utilized by program hardening solutions to protect sensitive sinks with very low performance overheads and high se-curity guarantees. We have extended the RISC-V ISA and implemented an FPGA-based prototype of ROLoad-PMP, and have demonstrated an important specific defense application of ROLoad-PMP. Evaluation results have shown that ROLoad-PMP takes few extra hardware resources ( < 1.40% ), and defense solutions based on ROLoad-PMP introduce negligi-ble runtime overheads ( < 0.853% ), while providing strong protection comparable to type-based CFI. We believe that because of its simplicity and security guarantees, ROLoad-PMP can be widely deployed to mitigate a large portion of memory corruption attacks in practice. IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMPUTERS 11 

REFERENCES [1] F. Schuster, T. Tendyck, C. Liebchen, L. Davi, A.-R. Sadeghi, and T. Holz, “Counterfeit object-oriented programming: On the difficulty of preventing code reuse attacks in c++ applications,” in 2015 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (S&P’15) , 2015, pp. 745–762. [2] N. Carlini, A. Barresi, M. Payer, D. Wagner, and T. R. Gross, “Control-flow bending: On the effectiveness of control-flow integrity,” in 24th USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 15) . Washington, D.C.: USENIX Association, Aug. 2015, pp. 161–176. [Online]. Available: https://www.usenix.org/conference/ usenixsecurity15/technical-sessions/presentation/carlini [3] K. K. Ispoglou, B. AlBassam, T. Jaeger, and M. Payer, “Block oriented programming: Automating data-only attacks,” in Proceedings of the 2018 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security , ser. CCS ’18. New York, NY, USA: Association for Computing Machinery, 2018, pp. 1868–1882. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/3243734.3243739 [4] J. Newsome and D. Song, “Dynamic taint analysis for automatic detection, analysis, and signature generation of exploits on commodity software,” in Proceedings of the 12th Network and Distributed Systems Security Symposium , 2005. [5] Z. L. Chua, Y. Wang, T. Baluta, P. Saxena, Z. Liang, and P. Su, “One engine to serve’em all: Inferring taint rules without architectural semantics,” in Symposium on Network and Distributed System Security (NDSS) , 2019. [6] A. Henderson, A. Prakash, L. K. Yan, X. Hu, X. Wang, R. Zhou, and H. Yin, “Make it work, make it right, make it fast: Building a platform-neutral whole-system dynamic binary analysis platform,” in 

Proceedings of the 2014 International Symposium on Software Testing and Analysis , ser. ISSTA 2014. New York, NY, USA: Association for Computing Machinery, 2014, pp. 248–258. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/2610384.2610407 [7] V. Kuznetsov, L. Szekeres, M. Payer, G. Candea, R. Sekar, and D. Song, “Code-pointer integrity,” in 11th USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation (OSDI 14) . Broomfield, CO: USENIX Association, Oct. 2014, pp. 147–163. [Online]. Available: https://www.usenix.org/conference/osdi14/technical-sessions/ presentation/kuznetsov [8] R. Wahbe, S. Lucco, T. E. Anderson, and S. L. Graham, “Efficient software-based fault isolation,” in Proceedings of the Fourteenth ACM Symposium on Operating Systems Principles , ser. SOSP ’93. New York, NY, USA: Association for Computing Machinery, 1993, pp. 203–216. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/168619.168635 [9] C. Cowan, C. Pu, D. Maier, H. Hintony, J. Walpole, P. Bakke, S. Beattie, A. Grier, P. Wagle, and Q. Zhang, “Stackguard: Automatic adaptive detection and prevention of buffer-overflow attacks,” in Proceedings of the 7th Conference on USENIX Security Symposium - Volume 7 . USA: USENIX Association, 1998, pp. 63–78. [10] H. Shacham, M. Page, B. Pfaff, E.-J. Goh, N. Modadugu, and D. Boneh, “On the effectiveness of address-space randomization,” in Proceedings of the 11th ACM Conference on Computer and Communications Security , ser. CCS ’04. New York, NY, USA: Association for Computing Machinery, 2004, pp. 298–307. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/1030083.1030124 [11] M. Abadi, M. Budiu, U. Erlingsson, and J. Ligatti, “Control-flow integrity,” in Proceedings of the 12th ACM Conference on Computer and Communications Security , ser. CCS ’05. New York, NY, USA: Association for Computing Machinery, 2005, pp. 340–353. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/1102120.1102165 [12] C. Zhang, T. Wei, Z. Chen, L. Duan, L. Szekeres, S. McCamant, D. Song, and W. Zou, “Practical control flow integrity & randomization for binary executables,” in 2013 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (S&P’13) . IEEE, 2013, pp. 559–573. [13] M. Zhang and R. Sekar, “Control flow integrity for COTS binaries,” in 22nd USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 13) . Washington, D.C.: USENIX Association, Aug. 2013, pp. 337–352. [Online]. Available: https://www.usenix.org/conference/ usenixsecurity13/technical-sessions/presentation/Zhang [14] B. Niu and G. Tan, “Modular control-flow integrity,” in Proceedings of the 35th ACM SIGPLAN Conference on Programming Language Design and Implementation , ser. PLDI ’14. New York, NY, USA: Association for Computing Machinery, 2014, pp. 577–587. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/2594291.2594295 [15] H. Liljestrand, T. Nyman, K. Wang, C. C. Perez, J.-E. Ekberg, and N. Asokan, “PAC it up: Towards pointer integrity using ARM pointer authentication,” in 28th USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 19) . Santa Clara, CA: USENIX Association, Aug. 2019, pp. 177–194. [Online]. Available: https://www.usenix.org/conference/ usenixsecurity19/presentation/liljestrand [16] M. Larabel. (2022) Improved control flow integrity (kcfi) implementation submitted for linux 6.1. [Online]. Available: https://www.phoronix.com/news/Linux-6.1-Clang-KCFI-Submitted [17] Intel. (2016) Intel(r) memory protection extensions enabling guide. [On-line]. Available: https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/ articles/guide/intel-memory-protection-extensions-enabling-guide.html [18] K. Mitsunami. (2021) Delivering enhanced se-curity through memory tagging extension. [On-line]. Available: https://community.arm.com/arm-community-blogs/b/ architectures-and-processors-blog/posts/enhanced-security-through-mte [19] Intel. (2023) Intel(r) 64 and ia-32 architectures software developer manuals. [Online]. Available: https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/ en/developer/articles/technical/intel-sdm.html [20] S. Park, S. Lee, W. Xu, H. Moon, and T. Kim, “libmpk: Software abstraction for intel memory protection keys (intel MPK),” in 2019 USENIX Annual Technical Conference (USENIX ATC 19) . Renton, WA: USENIX Association, Jul. 2019, pp. 241–254. [Online]. Available: https://www.usenix.org/conference/atc19/presentation/park-soyeon [21] A. Limited. (2021) Dacr, domain access control register. [Online]. Available: https://developer.arm.com/documentation/ddi0595/2021-12/ AArch32-Registers/DACR--Domain-Access-Control-Register [22] C. Song, H. Moon, M. Alam, I. Yun, B. Lee, T. Kim, W. Lee, and Y. Paek, “Hdfi: Hardware-assisted data-flow isolation,” in 2016 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (S&P’16) , 2016, pp. 1–17. [23] T. Frassetto, P. Jauernig, C. Liebchen, and A.-R. Sadeghi, “IMIX: In-process memory isolation extension,” in 27th USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 18) . Baltimore, MD: USENIX Association, Aug. 2018, pp. 83–97. [Online]. Available: https: //www.usenix.org/conference/usenixsecurity18/presentation/frassetto [24] A. Limited. (2023) Arm architecture reference manual for a-profile architecture. [Online]. Available: https://developer.arm.com/ documentation/ddi0487/latest [25] V. Shanbhogue, D. Gupta, and R. Sahita, “Security analysis of processor instruction set architecture for enforcing control-flow integrity,” in 

Proceedings of the 8th International Workshop on Hardware and Architectural Support for Security and Privacy , ser. HASP ’19. New York, NY, USA: Association for Computing Machinery, 2019. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/3337167.3337175 [26] A. Limited. (2021) Branch target identification. [Online]. Available: https://developer.arm.com/documentation/ddi0596/2021-12/ Base-Instructions/BTI--Branch-Target-Identification-[27] W. Tan, Y. Li, C. Zhang, X. Chen, S. Yang, Y. Liu, and J. Wu, “Roload: Securing sensitive operations with pointee integrity,” in 2021 58th ACM/IEEE Design Automation Conference (DAC) , 2021, pp. 307– 312. [28] A. Limited. (2023) Memory protection unit. [On-line]. Available: https://developer.arm.com/documentation/107565/0101/ Memory-protection/Memory-Protection-Unit [29] Y. Kim, R. Daly, J. Kim, C. Fallin, J. H. Lee, D. Lee, C. Wilkerson, K. Lai, and O. Mutlu, “Flipping bits in memory without accessing them: An experimental study of dram disturbance errors,” in Proceeding of the 41st Annual International Symposium on Computer Architecuture , ser. ISCA ’14. IEEE Press, 2014, pp. 361–372. [30] P. Kocher, J. Horn, A. Fogh, D. Genkin, D. Gruss, W. Haas, M. Ham-burg, M. Lipp, S. Mangard, T. Prescher, M. Schwarz, and Y. Yarom, “Spectre attacks: Exploiting speculative execution,” in 2019 IEEE Sym-posium on Security and Privacy (S&P’19) , 2019, pp. 1–19. [31] M. Lipp, M. Schwarz, D. Gruss, T. Prescher, W. Haas, A. Fogh, J. Horn, S. Mangard, P. Kocher, D. Genkin, Y. Yarom, and M. Hamburg, “Meltdown: Reading kernel memory from user space,” in 27th USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 18) . Baltimore, MD: USENIX Association, Aug. 2018, pp. 973–990. [Online]. Available: https://www.usenix.org/conference/usenixsecurity18/presentation/lipp [32] V. U. Amsterdam. (2020) Mds: Microarchitectural data sampling. [Online]. Available: https://mdsattacks.com/ [33] W. Tan, Y. Chen, Y. Li, Y. Liu, J. Wu, Y. Ding, and C. Zhang, “Ptstore: Lightweight architectural support for page table isolation,” in 2023 60th ACM/IEEE Design Automation Conference (DAC) , 2023, pp. 1–6. [34] C. Zhang, C. Song, K. Z. Chen, Z. Chen, and D. Song, “Vtint: Protecting virtual function tables’ integrity,” in Symposium on Network and Distributed System Security (NDSS) , 2015. [35] Microsoft. (2023) Data execution prevention. [Online]. Available: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/memory/ data-execution-prevention IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMPUTERS 12 

[36] M. Castro, M. Costa, and T. Harris, “Securing software by enforcing data-flow integrity,” in Proceedings of the 7th Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation , ser. OSDI ’06. USA: USENIX Association, 2006, pp. 147–160. [37] P. Akritidis, C. Cadar, C. Raiciu, M. Costa, and M. Castro, “Preventing memory error exploits with wit,” in 2008 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (S&P’08) , 2008, pp. 263–277. [38] C. Song, B. Lee, K. Lu, W. Harris, T. Kim, and W. Lee, “Enforcing kernel security invariants with data flow integrity,” in Symposium on Network and Distributed System Security (NDSS) , 2016. [39] K. Serebryany, E. Stepanov, A. Shlyapnikov, V. Tsyrklevich, and D. Vyukov, “Memory tagging and how it improves c/c++ memory safety,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1802.09517 , 2018. [40] A. Vahldiek-Oberwagner, E. Elnikety, N. O. Duarte, M. Sammler, P. Druschel, and D. Garg, “ERIM: Secure, efficient in-process isolation with protection keys (MPK),” in 28th USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 19) . Santa Clara, CA: USENIX Association, Aug. 2019, pp. 1221–1238. [Online]. Available: https://www.usenix. org/conference/usenixsecurity19/presentation/vahldiek-oberwagner [41] Z. Wang, C. Wu, M. Xie, Y. Zhang, K. Lu, X. Zhang, Y. Lai, Y. Kang, and M. Yang, “Seimi: Efficient and secure smap-enabled intra-process memory isolation,” in 2020 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP) , 2020, pp. 592–607. [42] J. Xu, M. Xie, C. Wu, Y. Zhang, Q. Li, X. Huang, Y. Lai, Y. Kang, W. Wang, Q. Wei, and Z. Wang, “Panic: Pan-assisted intra-process memory isolation on arm,” in Proceedings of the 2023 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security , ser. CCS ’23. New York, NY, USA: Association for Computing Machinery, 2023, pp. 919–933. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/3576915.3623206 [43] R. Avanzi, “The qarma block cipher family. almost mds matrices over rings with zero divisors, nearly symmetric even-mansour constructions with non-involutory central rounds, and search heuristics for low-latency s-boxes,” IACR Transactions on Symmetric Cryptology , pp. 4–44, 2017. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.13154/tosc.v2017.i1.4-44 [44] M. Gallagher, L. Biernacki, S. Chen, Z. B. Aweke, S. F. Yitbarek, M. T. Aga, A. Harris, Z. Xu, B. Kasikci, V. Bertacco, S. Malik, M. Tiwari, and T. Austin, “Morpheus: A vulnerability-tolerant secure architecture based on ensembles of moving target defenses with churn,” in Proceedings of the Twenty-Fourth International Conference on Architectural Support for Programming Languages and Operating Systems , ser. ASPLOS ’19. New York, NY, USA: Association for Computing Machinery, 2019, pp. 469–484. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/3297858.3304037 [45] D. Kwon, J. Shin, G. Kim, B. Lee, Y. Cho, and Y. Paek, “uxom: Efficient execute-only memory on ARM cortex-m,” in 28th USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 19) . Santa Clara, CA: USENIX Association, Aug. 2019, pp. 231–247. [Online]. Available: https://www.usenix.org/conference/usenixsecurity19/presentation/kwon