Title: "What Happens Locally, Leaks Globally": Detecting Privacy Leakage Risks in MCP Servers

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2606.21338v1

Published Time: Tue, 23 Jun 2026 00:50:38 GMT

Number of Pages: 19

Markdown Content:
# “What Happens Locally, Leaks Globally”: Detecting Privacy Leakage Risks in MCP Servers 

Biwei Yan 1, Minghui Xu 1, Yijun Yang 1, Boyang Ma 1, Xuelong Dai 1,Jinku Li 2, and Yue Zhang 1 

> 1

Shandong University, Jinan 250100, China 

{bwyan,mhxu,yijunyang,boyangma,daixuelong,zyueinfosec}@sdu.edu.cn  

> 2

Xidian University, Xi’an 710071, China 

jkli@xidian.edu.cn 

Abstract. The Model Context Protocol (MCP) has rapidly become the de facto standard for connecting large language models (LLMs) to ex-ternal resources, but it also introduces a class of privacy risks that ex-isting tools are ill-equipped to detect. Unlike conventional exfiltration bugs, leakage in MCP servers is largely protocol-induced : credentials, API keys, and Personally Identifiable Information (PII) cross the lo-cal/LLM boundary simply by being returned, logged, or raised inside a tool handler, with no explicit outbound request in the source code. We present MCPPrivacyDetector , a context-aware cross-language static anal-ysis framework that detects such leakage in multilingual MCP servers. 

MCPPrivacyDetector lifts heterogeneous code implemented across differ-ent programming language (e.g., Python) into a unified program rep-resentation, applies context-aware semantic filtering to isolate genuinely sensitive values and protocol-specific implicit sinks (e.g., @mcp.tool han-dlers), and performs taint analysis to enumerate feasible flows. Applied to 10,655 real-world MCP servers, MCPPrivacyDetector finds leakage rates above 10%. Case studies confirm concrete exposures including leaked Bearer tokens, propagated API keys, and plaintext authentication cre-dentials, arguing for systematic, protocol-aware safeguards in the emerg-ing LLM agent toolchain. 

Keywords: Model Context Protocol · Privacy Leakage · Taint Analysis. 

1 Introduction 

Large language models (LLMs) are increasingly deployed as the reasoning core of autonomous agents that plan, invoke external tools, and operate on real-world resources [32]. To support this shift, the community has rapidly converged on the Model Context Protocol (MCP) as a de facto standard for connecting agents to heterogeneous backends such as local file systems, private databases, and third-party APIs [2,24,15]. By standardizing context exchange and tool in-vocation, MCP has enabled a vibrant ecosystem of MCP servers , in which each server exposes a set of domain-specific tools that the LLM can call during task execution.  

> arXiv:2606.21338v1 [cs.CR] 19 Jun 2026 2B. Yan et al.

The MCP server sits at the boundary between local computation and remote inference. It reads from the local environment, runs tool logic, and serializes re-sults into a protocol-conformant response that the MCP client forwards to the LLM as part of its context window [14,25]. What appears to be a simple request– response pattern is in fact a chain of implicit data flows: function return values are automatically captured by protocol decorators (e.g., @mcp.tool ), exceptions surface as structured error payloads, and logging side-effects leak into both local storage and the outbound response. In this setting, the boundary between debug-ging artifact and model context becomes dangerously thin, raising risks around information leakage. This paper studies a class of privacy risks that arise directly from that archi-tectural mismatch. Unlike conventional data-exfiltration bugs [1,11,13,18], which require an explicit outbound request, privacy leakage in MCP servers is largely 

protocol-induced : sensitive values enter the leakage path simply by being re-turned, logged, or raised inside a tool handler. We observe two concrete mani-festations. First, verbose debugging practices cause credentials, API keys, and personally identifiable information (PII) to persist in plaintext within local logs and consoles, where they remain accessible to anyone with host-level access. Second, and more insidiously, such values are silently folded into serialized tool outputs and error messages; once the client forwards them, the remote LLM treats them as legitimate context and may echo them to downstream services, cache them, or surface them in later responses. The net effect is that the sensi-tive local state is exfiltrated without any explicit network call appearing in the server’s source code. Detecting these leaks is non-trivial for three reasons. (i) Implicit sinks. MCP’s decorator- and callback-driven design hides the actual data-egress boundary be-hind framework-level machinery, which pattern-matching scanners and conven-tional taint tools do not model. (ii) Context-sensitive sensitivity. Whether an identifier such as user_id or token denotes secret material depends on sur-rounding semantics; benign uses (e.g., tokens_used metrics) routinely trigger false positives in naïve rule-based detectors. (iii) multi-language fragmentation. 

Production MCP servers are written in Python, Go, Java, JavaScript, and Type-Script, each with its own AST shape, idioms, and framework bindings, making cross-ecosystem analysis prohibitively expensive with per-language tooling. We present MCPPrivacyDetector , a static analysis framework purpose-built for privacy-leakage detection in the multi-language MCP ecosystem. MCPPriva-cyDetector makes three design choices that jointly address the challenges above. First, it lifts heterogeneous source code from Python, Go, Java, JavaScript and TypeScript into a unified relational program representation , normalizing cross-language AST differences into a common query substrate. Second, it applies 

context-aware semantic filtering that combines lexical cues (configuration files, hardcoded credentials, PII-shaped identifiers) with AI-specific contextual sig-nals (e.g., token-accounting fields and length-check idioms) to separate genuinely sensitive values from superficially similar but benign ones, while simultaneously locating protocol-specific sinks such as @mcp.tool handlers, logging calls, and Detecting Privacy Leakage Risks in MCP Servers 3

exception surfaces. Third, on top of this model, MCPPrivacyDetector performs inter-procedural taint analysis to enumerate feasible flows from sensitive sources to MCP-visible sinks, yielding an automated verdict on whether a given server is exposed to privacy leakage. We evaluate MCPPrivacyDetector on 10,655 real-world MCP servers collected from GitHub and the major public MCP registries. The results show that pri-vacy leakage is already endemic: leakage rates exceed 10% in every language we study, peaking at 19.1% in Java and 15.4% in Python, and 83.0% of all detected cases concentrate in three registries, namely Pulse MCP, Smithery Registry, and Mcpmarket. Case studies confirm that these findings translate directly into exploitable risk. Bearer tokens surfaced in server logs permit direct credential replay; API keys embedded in outbound HTTP headers carry private data be-yond the local execution boundary; and authentication secrets printed to stan-dard output propagate into downstream log-collection pipelines. Together, these results indicate that MCP privacy leakage is not an isolated defect but a sys-temic weakness, concentrated in a small number of ecosystems and a handful of recurring patterns. 

Contributions. This paper makes the following contributions: 

– A new class of privacy risk. We identify and characterize a privacy-leakage class specific to MCP, rooted in the semantic mismatch between local tool execution and remote context propagation, whereby return values, exceptions, and debug output implicitly cross the local/LLM boundary. 

– A multi-language detection framework. We present MCPPrivacyDetec-tor , a static analysis framework that combines a unified cross-language pro-gram representation, context-aware semantic filtering, and protocol-guided taint analysis to detect such leaks at scale across Python, Go, Java, JavaScript, and TypeScript servers. 

– A large-scale ecosystem study. We conduct a large-scale security analysis of MCP servers across five languages and 10,655 repositories, quantifying the prevalence of privacy leakage and exposing concrete gaps in the privacy safeguards of emerging LLM agent toolchains. 

2 Background and Motivation 

2.1 Execution Workflow in MCP 

MCP is an open protocol that standardizes how LLM-based applications inter-act with external capabilities such as tools, data resources, and prompt tem-plates [2,24,15]. It adopts a host–client–server architecture: the host embeds the LLM, each client maintains a stateful session with one MCP server, and each server exposes a set of local capabilities to the agent. Figure 1 illustrates the four stages of a typical invocation. (1) Initialization. The host instanti-ates a client, negotiates protocol version and transport with the target MCP server, and establishes a session over which subsequent messages are exchanged. 

(2) Capability registration. The server advertises the components it exposes 4 B. Yan et al. LLM Model    

> Host
> MCP Server
> Resources
> Tools
> Prompts
> 1. Initialization
> Initialization & Capabilities
> Negotiation
> 2. Capability Registration 3. Invocation and
> Execution
> 4. Context Propagation
> Model Triggers
> Tool Invocation
> {
> “version”: “...”
> }
> {
> “capabilities”:
> “capabilities”:...
> }
> Initialization &
> Capabilities Negotiation
> Host Establishes MCP
> Client for Target Server
> Server Exposes
> Standardized Base
> Components to Client
> Route
> Invocation
> Initiate
> Request
> MCP Server
> Local
> Computation
> Integrate into
> Model
> Context for
> Subsequent
> Reasoning
> Return Result
> to Host
> Return Result
> External
> Services
> Client Client
> ①
> ②
> ③
> ④
> ⑤
> ⑥
> ⑦
> ⑧
> ⑨
> ⑩
> ⑪⑫
> Server Exposes
> Standardized Base
> Components to Client
> Model Triggers
> Tool Invocation
> and Execution
> Return Result and
> IntegrateContext for
> Subsequent Reasoning
> Initialization & Capabilities Negotiation

Fig. 1: Execution in MCP tools, resources, and prompts, through a standardized schema. In practice, these are typically bound via framework-level decorators (e.g., @mcp.tool ) that trans-parently wire local functions to protocol endpoints. (3) Invocation and exe-cution. When the LLM decides to call an external capability, the host forwards the call through its client to the MCP server; the server dispatches it to the corresponding handler, executes the handler against the local environment, and serializes the result into a protocol-conformant response. (4) Context propa-gation. The client returns the serialized result to the host, which incorporates it into the LLM’s context window as a tool-use observation, closing the loop so the model can proceed with the task. This design gives MCP its flexibility: any backend that speaks the protocol becomes addressable by any MCP-aware agent. The same design, however, makes the boundary between local execution and the LLM’s context implicit—stage (4) silently transports whatever stage (3) produced, including values that were never intended to leave the host. 

2.2 Motivation and Problem statement Motivation. Although prior studies have already suggested that privacy risks may exist in LLM agents [34,35], privacy leakage in MCP servers remains un-derexplored, despite their central role as a middleware [36,30,5]. To better un-derstand this problem, we conducted an empirical study on real-world MCP servers. Specifically, we collected 10,655 MCP servers and analyzed the privacy-related information. Our analysis showed that 6,657 servers contained privacy-related information, accounting for 62.5% of the total. Furthermore, 1,317 servers exhibited privacy leakage risks, representing 12.4% of all servers and 19.8% of those containing privacy-related information. We further identified privacy-relevant entities and categorized them semantically. Credentials constituted the dominant category (56.22%), followed by contact information (29.78%), while Detecting Privacy Leakage Risks in MCP Servers 5

identity-related, financial, and address-related information also appeared in non-negligible quantities. These findings indicate that MCP servers frequently embed and manipulate privacy-sensitive data during tool execution, request handling, and configuration management, thereby creating substantial opportunities for unintended exposure. Therefore, the core problem is how to accurately identify privacy leakage risks in MCP servers. Privacy leakage in MCP servers manifests through two complementary mech-anisms, both rooted in the workflow of Section 2.1. 

(I) Local plaintext leakage. The execution chain of an LLM agent is opaque by construction: a single user query can trigger multiple interleaved tool calls whose intermediate state is invisible from the model side. To regain observability, developers instrument MCP servers with verbose runtime logging, stack traces, and temporary caches. The same handlers, however, routinely process sensitive material such as OAuth tokens, API keys, and PII, embedded in request payloads and exception contexts during stage (3) of the invocation flow. When these values are written in plaintext to log files, standard output, or on-disk caches, they persist on the host beyond the lifetime of the invocation and become accessible to any process, collaborator, or log-aggregation pipeline with host-level access. Credentials 

> Contact
> Identity
> Financial
> Address 0
> 1k
> 2k
> 3k
> 4k
> 5k
> 6k
> Number of MCP Servers

Fig. 2: Distribution of privacy infor-mation in MCP servers by category 

(II) Implicit cross-boundary propa-gation. A second, more insidious mech-anism is specific to MCP’s protocol de-sign. Because stage (4) serializes what-ever a tool handler returns and forwards it into the LLM’s context window, the ab-sence of handler-level sanitization means any sensitive value surfaced during exe-cution, whether as a legitimate field of the return object, an unhandled excep-tion message, or a debug detail the devel-oper forgot to strip, is transmitted to the remote model verbatim. From the proto-col’s perspective, these values are indistin-guishable from intended context: they are encapsulated as legitimate tool-use obser-vations, cross the local/LLM boundary implicitly, and may subsequently be logged, cached, or echoed to downstream services by the model host. The re-sult is data exfiltration without any explicit outbound request in the server’s source code, which is precisely what makes the risk easy to overlook during development and code review. The two mechanisms compound. A value leaked into a log is frequently also surfaced in the corresponding return object, and a value returned to the LLM is often logged for debugging, so a single handling mistake can simultaneously expose the same secret across local and remote surfaces. 6 B. Yan et al. 

Problem statement. We formulate privacy leakage detection in MCP servers as a source-to-sink analysis problem. In an MCP server, privacy-sensitive infor-mation may obtained from various program entities, such as hardcoded creden-tials, sensitive configuration files, environment-dependent values, or variables and fields that carry privacy-relevant semantics. A privacy leak occurs when such data can propagate through the server logic and reach externally observ-able endpoints, including protocol-visible outputs, logging operations, or out-bound communication interfaces. Accordingly, our goal is to determine whether an MCP server contains feasible privacy leakage paths from sensitive sources to leakage-relevant sinks. 

3 Design of MCPPrivacyDetector 

3.1 Challenge and and solution C1. Multi-language heterogeneity in MCP server. In the MCP ecosys-tem, MCP is an open protocol that standardizes interactions between LLM ap-plications and external data sources and tools, while remaining independent of any specific implementation language. Accordingly, official MCP documentation and SDKs support server development in multiple languages, including Python, JavaScript, Java, Go and TypeScript [23]. As a result, the same privacy-relevant behavior may appear in very different program forms across implementations. This heterogeneity makes it difficult to analyze MCP servers directly over raw source code and limits the applicability of existing single-language techniques. Therefore, an effective solution needs to provide a unified cross-language abstrac-tion that can standardize heterogeneous program structures while preserving privacy-related features for subsequent analysis. 

C2. Ambiguous leakage metrics and benign contexts. Privacy leakage detection in MCP servers generally uses rule-based methods for identifying sen-sitive features, such as hardcoded keys, sensitive identifiers, file accesses, log-ging statements, HTTP request parameters, and externally visible return val-ues. However, prior studies show that pattern-based detection is highly prone to false positives [3], since many benign artifacts may look similar to sensitive data. For example, variables containing keywords such as token , key , or address may simply denote telemetry counters, file paths, protocol fields, or resource locators, while expressions such as tokens_used , max_tokens , len(secret) , hex() , or 

repr() do not necessarily imply real leakage of sensitive information. Therefore, privacy leakage detection in MCP servers cannot rely solely on isolated lexical or structural features; it requires context-aware semantic filtering to distinguish genuine privacy risks from benign program behavior. 

C3. Detecting privacy leakage under implicit data propagation. Even when sensitive features are present in a program, their existence alone does not imply a privacy leakage [10]. The real risk lies in whether sensitive data is propagated through assignments, parameter passing, or attribute accesses, and Detecting Privacy Leakage Risks in MCP Servers 7S1: Unified program representation S2: Semantic filter S3: Privacy leakage detection   

> Rule match
> Helpers
> Templates Statistics
> Paths
> Semantic filter
> Potential
> entities
> Candidate
> entities
> Source & Sink
> Path Analysis
> Sinks & Sources Path check
> Path Graph
> Unified DB
> (CodeQL-driven)
> CodeQL
> AST
> CFG
> MCP server

Fig. 3: Overview of MCPPrivacyDetector 

eventually reaches observable leakage endpoints, such as logging outputs, out-bound HTTP request parameters, or tool return values. For MCP servers, this issue is particularly pronounced because sensitive information is rarely exposed directly at its point of definition. Instead, it is often propagated through local as-signments, helper-function encapsulation, object field accesses, and intermediate computations. Eventually, such sensitive data may be embedded into protocol context or transmitted to potential leakage sinks (e.g., external communication interfaces), thereby resulting in privacy leakage. Therefore, we must not only identify sensitive features but also further verify whether this data can prop-agate along actual program paths to potential leakage points. Otherwise, it is difficult to accurately determine whether the MCP server truly poses a risk of privacy leakage. Thus, we need an inter-procedural data-flow analysis method to determine whether sensitive data is actually leaked. To address these challenges, we propose MCPPrivacyDetector , a context-aware static analysis framework designed for detecting privacy leakage in MCP servers as shown in Figure 3. This framework comprises three core components: a unified cross-language program representation, context-aware rule matching and filter-ing, and taint-analysis-based leakage detection. Specifically, the framework first establishes a unified cross-language analysis foundation to eliminate differences in syntax and program structure across different implementation languages, pro-viding a consistent program abstraction and thus improving the applicability of the method in a multi-language MCP ecosystem. Building on this, unlike previ-ous methods that relied solely on isolated pattern matching or lexical scanning leading to high false positives, the framework introduces a context-aware se-mantic filtering mechanism. This extracts candidate entities with privacy-related features to exclude a large number of benign matches that are similar to sensi-tive patterns, thereby reducing false positives. Finally, the framework uses taint analysis to detect the actual propagation relationships between candidate enti-ties, thereby determining whether the MCP server truly poses a risk of privacy leakage. 

S1. CodeQL-based unified multi-language program representation. To solve the challenge regarding the heterogeneity of programming languages in MCP servers (Challenge C1), the framework first uses CodeQL to establish a 8 B. Yan et al. 

cross-language foundation for static analysis. It translates MCP servers writ-ten in various languages into a unified and queryable program representation. Subsequent analyses no longer rely on language-specific syntax but are instead operate on unified program entities and their interrelationships. In this manner, the framework transforms the problem of detecting privacy leakages in multi-language MCP servers into a CodeQL-based program analysis problem, thereby providing a common foundation for rule matching and data-flow analysis. 

S2. Rule matching and context-aware semantic filtering. To address the issue of false positives identified in Challenge C2, MCPPrivacyDetector employs a strategy that combines heuristic rule matching with context-aware semantic filtering. First, it extracts candidate entities that may carry privacy-related se-mantics. Then, it examines the program context surrounding these entities to filter out entities irrelevant to privacy information, such as template constants, statistical indicators, path descriptions, or matches corresponding to internal auxiliary logic. This process effectively eliminates noise from the initial set of candidate entities, thereby enhancing the accuracy of the detection results. 

S3. Taint analysis-based privacy leakage detection. As discussed in Chal-lenge C3, the presence of sensitive entities only indicates that a program may contain privacy-related information; it does not directly imply that a privacy leakage has actually occurred. A risk of privacy leakage exists only when such data can propagate along actual program execution paths to reach an observable output boundary. To address this issue, MCPPrivacyDetector further introduces a privacy leakage detection scheme based on taint analysis. The initial candi-date entities generated in the previous stage are formally designated as sources and sinks. Then, a check is performed to determine whether an actually reach-able data flow path exists between them. If such a path is indeed present, the analyzed MCP server is deemed to be at risk of privacy leakage. 

3.2 Detailed Design Cross-language program representation and entity modeling. MCPPri-vacyDetector uses CodeQL to convert source code from different languages into a queryable program representation. 

Step 1: Cross-language code parsing and database construction. In the first step, the framework creates a CodeQL database for each MCP server. For each project, CodeQL parses the source code and converts it into a language-aware but queryable program representation. This database captures structural and semantic information such as identifiers , attribute accesses , function calls , assignments , return values , and data-flow relations . Although different languages (e.g., Python, JavaScript, Go) differ substantially in syntax and execution behavior, CodeQL lifts them into a common queryable form. 

Step 2: Program entity extraction and organization. Based on the con-structed database, the framework then organizes the key program entities re-quired for privacy leakage detection. Specifically, the rules (see Table 1) are built Detecting Privacy Leakage Risks in MCP Servers 9

Table 1: Six rules for privacy leakage detection in MCPPrivacyDetector 

Rule ID Rule Category Trigger Condition Semantic Constraint Detection Role 

L1 Hardcoded Secret Lit-eral A variable or attribute is as-signed a string literal The identifier carries explicit secret semantics, such as secret , token ,

api_key , or access_key 

Identifies hardcoded secret or credential literals and models them as high-confidence taint sources. L2 PII Cleartext Logging A print or logging operation di-rectly outputs a variable or ex-pression The printed or logged content carries general PII semantics, such as email ,

phone , or address 

Identifies plaintext exposure of ordinary PII through local output operations and mod-els them as leakage sinks. L3 Sensitive Cleartext Log-ging A print or logging operation di-rectly outputs a variable or ex-pression The printed or logged content car-ries stronger secret semantics, such as 

token , secret , password , or api_key 

Identifies plaintext exposure of sensitive credentials or se-crets through local output operations and models them as leakage sinks. L4 Sensitive File Read A local file is opened and its con-tents are subsequently read The file path indicates sensitive se-mantics, such as .env , mcp.json ,

id_rsa , certificate files, or common credential/configuration files Identifies data loaded from sensitive local files and mod-els them as taint sources. L5 Sensitive File Flow to External Sink Data originating from a sensitive file flows to an external sink The destination corresponds to an externally observable sink, such as an outbound HTTP request, a tool re-turn value, or another externally ex-posed output location Identifies cross-boundary leakage paths in which sensi-tive file content is propagated to external sinks. L6 Sensitive Data Flow to External Sink A sensitive variable or attribute flows to an external sink The propagated data carries sensitive semantics and reaches an externally observable sink, such as an outbound HTTP request, a tool return value, or another externally exposed output location Identifies cross-boundary leakage paths in which sen-sitive in-memory data is propagated to external sinks. 

on identifier nodes , attribute nodes , call nodes , assignment-related statements , and return expressions . These entities provide the basis for modeling sensitive sources, potential sinks, and intermediate propagation paths. In this way, the detection task is formulated as a relation analysis problem over structured program entities extracted from the CodeQL database. 

Rule matching and context-aware filtering. In this stage, the framework first extracts source and sink candidates using rule-based static matching, and then refines them through context-aware filtering over the CodeQL representa-tion, providing reliable inputs for subsequent taint analysis. MCP.io 

> Smithery Registry
> Pulse MCP
> Mcpmarket
> Awesome MCP
> Cursor Directory
> Glama AI
> 0.0
> 2.5
> 5.0
> 7.5
> 10.0
> 12.5
> 15.0
> 17.5
> Leakage Rate (%)

Fig. 4: Privacy leakage rate across MCP markets 

Step 1: Rule-based candidate extrac-tion. The framework defines six privacy-leakage detection rules, as summarized in Table 1. These rules capture three com-plementary aspects of leakage analysis: 

source identification , local plaintext ex-posure , and cross-boundary propagation .Specifically, hardcoded secret literal and 

sensitive file read identify high-confidence sensitive sources, while PII cleartext log-ging and sensitive print or log capture lo-cal plaintext exposure through print or logging operations. In contrast, sensitive file flow to HTTP or tool and sensitive flow to HTTP or tool characterize end-to-end propagation paths in which sensitive data reaches externally observable sinks, such as outbound HTTP requests or 10 B. Yan et al. 

tool-returned outputs. Each rule matches candidate program entities or flows through recognizable structural patterns, such as literal assignments, file-read operations, output-related calls, and source-to-sink propagation. The result of this step is an initial set of candidate sensitive sources, local exposure points, and external leakage paths for later analysis. 

Step 2: Context-aware candidate refinement. Since the candidates ex-tracted in Step 1 are intentionally broad, the framework further filters them using contextual information in CodeQL. In particular, it checks entity types, local structural relations, and function semantics to remove benign matches that resemble sensitive operations only superficially. For example, it excludes wrap-per calls such as len(...) , hex(...) , str(...) , and repr(...) , statistical variables such as tokens_used , and return expressions from functions without external exposure semantics. This step produces a more precise set of candidate program entities for the subsequent taint analysis. 

Privacy leakage detector based on taint analysis. At this stage, MCP-PrivacyDetector further determines whether sensitive data can actually flow to potential leakage endpoints, based on the candidate program entities obtained after rule matching and context-aware filtering. The framework first maps can-didate program entities to a concrete program expression that can participate in data-flow analysis. For source rules, this mapping binds matched entities (e.g., hardcoded literals, values returned by sensitive file reads, and identifiers with sensitive semantics) to the corresponding expressions that introduce data into execution. For sink rules, it binds matched entities such as logging arguments, HTTP request arguments, and externally visible return expressions to the cor-responding output expressions. After this binding step, the framework issues source–sink reachability queries over the CodeQL database. The analysis validates propagation through three common categories of re-lations. The first is assignment propagation , where a sensitive value is copied or rebound through local assignments. The second is argument propagation , where a sensitive value is passed into another function or method call and contin-ues to flow through parameters and return values across call boundaries. The third is attribute propagation , where a sensitive value is stored in an object field, later retrieved through attribute access, and then forwarded to subsequent op-erations. These relations allow the detector to cover both intra-procedural and inter-procedural propagation patterns that commonly appear in MCP servers. A candidate leakage path is reported only when the MCPPrivacyDetector can construct a reachable source-sink chain in the program graph. 

4 Evaluation 

4.1 Dataset and Experiment Setup 

We built the dataset by collecting MCP servers through the GitHub API and sev-eral registries, including Smithery Registry , Pulse MCP , Cursor Directory ,Detecting Privacy Leakage Risks in MCP Servers 11 

Awesome MCP , Glama AI , Mcpmarket , and Modelcontextprotocol.io (MCP.io) .We developed a dedicated crawler to automatically obtain the source code and the associated metadata of each MCP server. In total, we obtained 10,655 MCP servers, covering a wide range of functional categories. To reduce the impact of class imbalance and avoid bias caused by categories with only a small number of samples, we grouped these categories into a single “Other” category, making the dataset more balanced and representative. We also assigned a small number of servers to an “Unknown” category when their metadata in public registries was missing, incomplete, or inconsistent. 

Execution Environment. All experiments were conducted on a 64-bit x64-based workstation running Microsoft Windows 11 Pro (Version 10.0.26200, Build 26200). The machine was equipped with an Intel(R) Core(TM) Ultra 7 258V processor at 2.20 GHz, featuring 32 GB of RAM. 

4.2 Performance of MCPPrivacyDetector 

Accuracy. MCPPrivacyDetector has demonstrated a high detection accuracy rate. To assess the reliability of the detection results, we manually verified the findings produced by MCPPrivacyDetector . Specifically, we randomly sampled 200 MCP servers that MCPPrivacyDetector had identified as exhibiting privacy leaks and subjected them to individual scrutiny. Of these, 192 were confirmed to involve genuine privacy leaks, while only 8 were identified as false positives, yielding a corresponding false positive rate of 4.0%. Concurrently, we observed no instances of false negatives. These results indicate that MCPPrivacyDetec-tor is capable of effectively identifying privacy leakage risks across a large-scale population of MCP servers. 

4.3 Empirical Results Market-level distribution of privacy leakage. Figures 4 and 5 present two complementary views of privacy leakage across MCP markets, namely leakage rate and market contribution. From the leakage rate, MCP.io exhibits the highest leakage rate at approximately 18.1%, followed by Smithery Registry at 15.1% and Pulse MCP at 13.2%. Mcpmarket and Awesome MCP are both around 12%, while Cursor Directory and Glama AI show relatively lower rates, at 9.3% and 8.8%, respectively. From the market contribution, however, privacy-leaking MCP servers are mainly concentrated in several major ecosystems. Pulse MCP ,

Smithery Registry , and Mcpmarket account for 29.1%, 27.0%, and 26.9% of all leakage cases, respectively, whereas MCP.io , Cursor Directory , Awesome MCP ,and Glama AI contribute relatively limited shares. These results indicate that some markets exhibit high internal leakage rates even though they contribute only a limited fraction of all leakage cases, whereas large ecosystems dominate the overall leakage distribution because of their scale. 

Language-level distribution of privacy leakage and rule composition. 

As shown in Figure 6a, it shows the MCP server privacy leakage in various pro-gramming language. Under the current rule set, the majority of MCP servers in 12 B. Yan et al. Market 

> Pulse MCP (29.1%)
> Smithery Registry (27.0%)
> Mcpmarket (26.9%)
> Modelcontextprotocol.io (8.2%)
> Cursor Directory (6.5%)
> Awesome MCP (1.9%)
> Glama AI (0.5%)

Fig. 5: Market contribution of privacy-leaking MCP servers JavaScript      

> Python
> Go
> Java
> TypeScript 0
> 20
> 40
> 60
> 80
> 100
> Percentage of MCP Servers
> 12.6% 15.4% 12.7%
> 19.1%
> 12.7%
> 87.4% 84.6% 87.3%
> 80.9%
> 87.3%
> With privacy leakage No privacy leakage

(a) MCP server privacy leakage in var-ious programming languages JavaScript 

> Python
> Java
> Go
> TypeScript 0
> 200
> 400
> 600
> 800
> 1000
> 1200
> 1400
> Number of MCP Servers
> L1
> L2
> L3
> L4
> L5
> L6

(b) Rule composition of privacy leakage across languages 

Fig. 6: Language-level distribution of privacy leakage and rule composition each language do not exhibit privacy leakage risks; however, the leakage rates vary substantially across languages. Specifically, Java shows the highest leakage rate at 19.1%, followed by Python at 15.4%, whereas JavaScript, Go, and Type-Script display relatively similar proportions. These results suggest that privacy leakage risk is not evenly distributed across different language implementations, but instead tends to be more concentrated in particular language ecosystems. Moreover, the leakage rate exceeds 10% for every language, indicating that this issue is not driven by a small number of anomalous cases, but has already ex-hibited prevalence across the MCP ecosystem. L3 

> L2
> L1
> L6
> L4
> L5
> Rule
> 0
> 200
> 400
> 600
> 800
> 1000
> Number of MCP Server
> 0
> 20
> 40
> 60
> 80
> 100
> Cumulative %

Fig. 7: MCP servers with privacy leakage by rules As shown in Figure 6b, it shows rule composition of privacy leakage across lan-guages. JavaScript and Python account for the majority of privacy leakage cases, whereas Java, Go, and TypeScript con-tribute substantially fewer cases, indicat-ing a relatively concentrated language-level distribution. From the perspective of rule composition, L3 and L2 dominate in JavaScript and Python, suggesting that privacy leakage in the major language is primarily driven by a small number of high-frequency rules. By contrast, L4, L5, Detecting Privacy Leakage Risks in MCP Servers 13 Developer Tools 

> Data Science & ML
> Productivity & Workflow
> Collaboration Tools
> API Development
> Cloud Infrastructure
> E-commerce Solutions
> Database Management
> Analytics & Monitoring
> Security & Testing
> Blockchain Development
> Social Media Management
> Web Scraping & Data Collection
> Content Management
> Other
> Design Tools
> Marketing Automation
> Mobile Development
> Browser Automation
> Deployment & DevOps
> Learning & Documentation
> Game Development
> Blockchain & Cryptocurrency
> Music & Audio
> Healthcare Solutions
> Home Automation
> Health & Medical
> Health & Fitness
> Official
> Financial Technology (FinTech)
> Automation & Workflow
> Featured
> Financial & Banking
> 0
> 100
> 200
> 300
> 400
> 500
> 600
> Number of MCP Servers
> L1
> L2
> L3
> L4
> L5
> L6

Fig. 8: MCP servers with privacy leakage by category and L6 are triggered far less frequently and mainly serve as marginal supple-ments. These results indicate that privacy leakage risk in the MCP ecosystem exhibits strong concentration in both the language and rule dimensions. 

Rule-level analysis of privacy leakage. As shown in Figure 7, the coverage of MCP servers with privacy leakage across different rules exhibits a clear con-centration pattern. L3 is the most frequently triggered rule, detecting more MCP servers than any other rule, and when L2 and L1 are further incorporated, the cumulative coverage approaches nearly all privacy leakage cases. In contrast, L6, L4, and L5 are triggered far less frequently and contribute only marginally to the overall coverage, exhibiting a typical long-tail pattern. These results indicate that privacy leakage in the current MCP ecosystem is not driven uniformly by all rules, but is instead concentrated in a small number of high-frequency leak-age patterns. Table 2 summarizes the distribution of MCP Servers for each rule within its high-frequency application category. This table indicates that different rules exhibit significant disparities not only in the number of detections, but also in distributed characteristics such as market coverage, language coverage, and primary application categories. Specifically, rules L3, L2, and L1 demonstrate broader distributions, appearing across a wider range of markets and languages. In contrast, rules L4, L5, and L6 show relatively limited coverage, suggesting that the leakage patterns associated with these rules are more concentrated in specific application scenarios. Table 2: Coverage of privacy leakage rules 

Rule Servers Markets Languages Top Categories 

L1 293 7 5 Developer Tools, Data Science & ML L2 628 7 4 Developer Tools, Collaboration Tools, Productivity & Workflow L3 1110 7 4 Developer Tools, Data Science & ML, Collaboration Tools L4 18 5 2 Developer Tools, Cloud Infrastructure, E-commerce Solutions L5 10 4 2 Developer Tools, Cloud Infrastructure, Content Management L6 43 5 3 Developer Tools, Cloud Infrastructure 14 B. Yan et al. 

Category-level distribution of privacy leakage. Privacy leakage is dis-tributed across application categories in Figure 8. Developer Tools account for the largest number of leakage cases, substantially exceeding all other categories. This finding indicates that MCP servers in Developer Tools are more likely to expose privacy risks when handling code artifacts, configuration files, creden-tials, and external tool interactions. Beyond Developer Tools, categories such as Data Science & ML, Productivity & Workflow, Collaboration Tools, API Devel-opment, and Cloud Infrastructure also exhibit relatively high numbers of leakage cases, indicating that privacy risks are prominent in scenarios involving inten-sive data processing, automated orchestration, and frequent interactions with external resources. Table 3: Distribution of MCP servers by privacy leakage status                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              

> Category Awesome MCP Cursor Directory Glama AI Mcpmarket MCP.io Pulse MCP Smithery Registry LNL LNL LNL LNL LNL LNL LNL
> Developer Tools 332 12 172 -6260 1893 743 57 567 38 311 Data Science & ML 325 9143 -15 21 133 952 39 361 52 357 Database Management 422 832 -7748 827 15 169 24 154 API Development 112 430 -118 99 522 36 169 23 128 Web Scraping &Data Collection 117 558 -39135 113 7100 10 132 Cloud Infrastructure -11 637 312 968 11 30 27 122 24 90 Collaboration Tools -11 853 -712723 39 116 41 139 Productivity &Work-flow 2810 59 -2-3718 17 90 49 157 E-commerce Solutions 35837 15--615 24 83 31 118 Analytics & Monitoring -8228 --22 138 -17 642 750 Security & Testing -9228 2235114 14 91 10 64 Content Management -4329 -216313 684 961 Social Media Manage-ment 12520 -1491812 41 955 Browser Automation 26112 -5-111641 549 Design Tools -1115 --1225925 955 Mobile Development -3110 ---117430 10 48 Blockchain Development 1129----6214 45 825 Game Development -3-11 -1---4349 226 Unknown 41-2---339 196 56 362 224 Other ---1-123 157 ---1-10

Table 3 presents the counts of MCP Servers exhibiting privacy leaks (L) versus those with no detected leaks (NL) across the top 20 categories; thus, it reflects not only the distribution of leaks but also the overall scale of the ecosys-tem within each category and market. Categories such as Developer Tools, Data Science & ML, API Development, and Database Management consistently ex-hibit high counts of both L and NL servers across multiple markets. This suggests that privacy leaks are not randomly distributed across various application sce-narios, but rather occur more frequently in those categories and markets that possess large-scale MCP servers. 

4.4 Case Studies Case Study 1: Bearer token disclosure via debug logging. Figure 9(a) shows a representative leakage pattern in a real-world MCP server. The pro-gram first constructs an authenticated HTTP header containing a Bearer token and then directly writes the entire headers dictionary to a debug log. Since the 

Authorization field contains self._api_token , the complete token is exposed Detecting Privacy Leakage Risks in MCP Servers 15 

> headers = { "Authorization": f"Bearer {self. _api_token}", "Content-Type": "application/json", "Accept": "application/json", }logger.debug(f"Headers: {headers}")

(a) Plaintext Bearer token disclosure through debug logging. 

> api_key = os.getenv("BRAVE_API_KEY") self._client = httpx.AsyncClient( headers={ "X-Subscription-Token": self.api_key ,"Accept": "application/json", })

(b) Sensitive API key propagated into an outbound HTTP header. 

> def get_authentication_token( client_id=None): api_key = app_config.get_auth_token () print(f"API key from environment: { api_key}") if api_key: return api_key

(c) Authentication key printed to stdout. 

Fig. 9: Representative privacy leakage patterns in real-world MCP servers at a logging sink. Once debug logging is enabled, the token may appear in con-sole output, local log files, or centralized logging infrastructures, from which an attacker could recover and reuse it for unauthorized API invocation. 

Case Study 2: Sensitive API key propagation to an outbound HTTP header. As illustrated in Figure 9(b), the MCP server first loads an API key from the environment and subsequently inserts it into an outbound HTTP re-quest header. This is a valid privacy leakage path, because a privacy-sensitive value leaves the local execution boundary and becomes part of an external re-quest. Propagating sensitive credentials to external request parameters or request headers inherently poses a risk of privacy leakage, as these credentials may be exposed and misused within remote services or logging systems. 

Case Study 3: Plaintext printing of an authentication key. Figure 9(c) presents another concrete leakage pattern, where an authentication key retrieved from configuration or environment context is printed directly to standard output. Although the value is not immediately exfiltrated through a network request, it becomes observable through terminal output, system logs. This case demon-strates that privacy leakage in MCP servers can arise not only from explicit external transmission, but also from local outputs during execution. 

5 Related Work 

MCP Security. MCP is a standardized interface that connects LLMs with external tools by structuring inputs and coordinating multi-source information [16,29,7,19,15]. However, recent studies have shown that if an insecure MCP is connected, it can become an exploit path for attackers to control LLM behav-ior, inject malicious instructions, steal assets, and achieve remote code execution (RCE) [20,6,12,17]. Specifically, untrusted MCP data sources or tool responses can lead to serious risks such as prompt injection [22,21,27], cross-service prompt stealing [33], demystifying RCE manipulation of executors [20,25], and trojaniz-ing plugins [6]. Furthermore, the complexity of responsibility attribution intro-duced by long contexts requires enhanced traceability in MCP design [31]. 

MCP Privacy. Recent studies indicate that MCP increases the risk of privacy leakage by enabling the flow of sensitive information across various tools, ser-vices, and execution contexts [4,37,9,28]. Existing work suggests that such risks 16 B. Yan et al. 

may stem from cross-tool interactions and parasitic toolchains [4,37], or from the integration of untrusted third-party MCP services [9]. Concurrently, some MCP-based systems have begun to incorporate mechanisms,such as access con-trol, encryption, and audit logs, to mitigate the risk of privacy exposure in highly sensitive application scenarios [26,8]. These research findings demonstrate that privacy security within an MCP environment is closely intertwined with the pro-tocol’s orchestration model and its cross-context data access patterns. our work focuses on privacy leakage detection in MCP servers and proposes a systematic static analysis approach tailored to the MCP ecosystem. 

6 Conclusion 

In this paper, we investigated privacy leakage risks in MCP servers through 

MCPPrivacyDetector , a cross-language static analysis framework. By combining unified program representation, context-aware rule matching, and taint analysis, 

MCPPrivacyDetector identifies privacy leakage in real-world MCP deployments. Evaluation on 10,655 MCP servers shows that privacy leakage is widespread across the MCP ecosystem, with non-trivial leakage rates across all languages and clear concentration in several major markets, dominant rules, and appli-cation categories. Case studies further confirm concrete leakage in practice, in-cluding leaked Bearer tokens, propagated API keys, and plaintext authentication credentials. Overall, our findings show that privacy leakage has become a sig-nificant security concern in MCP servers and highlight the need for systematic detection across the MCP ecosystem. 

Open Science 

We provide all source code necessary to evaluate the core contributions of this pa-per through a repository hosted at https://anonymous.4open.science/r/mcp_priv/. 

References    

> 1. Aghili, R., Li, H., Khomh, F.: Protecting privacy in software logs: What should be anonymized? Proceedings of the ACM on Software Engineering 2(FSE), 1317–1338 (2025) 2. Anthropic: Introducing the model context protocol. https://www.anthropic.com/ news/model-context-protocol (2024), accessed: 2026-04-18 3. Basak, S.K., Cox, J., Reaves, B., Williams, L.: A comparative study of software secrets reporting by secret detection tools. In: 2023 ACM/IEEE International Sym-posium on Empirical Software Engineering and Measurement (ESEM). pp. 1–12. IEEE (2023) 4. Croce, N., South, T.: Trivial trojans: How minimal mcp servers enable cross-tool exfiltration of sensitive data. arXiv preprint arXiv:2507.19880 (2025)

Detecting Privacy Leakage Risks in MCP Servers 17 5. Debenedetti, E., Zhang, J., Balunovic, M., Beurer-Kellner, L., Fischer, M., Tramèr, F.: Agentdojo: A dynamic environment to evaluate prompt injection attacks and defenses for llm agents. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 37 ,82895–82920 (2024) 6. Dong, T., Xue, M., Chen, G., Holland, R., Meng, Y., Li, S., Liu, Z., Zhu, H.: The philosopher’s stone: Trojaning plugins of large language models. In: Proceedings 2025 Network and Distributed System Security Symposium. (2025) 7. Ehtesham, A., Singh, A., Kumar, S.: Enhancing clinical decision support and ehr insights through llms and the model context protocol: An open-source mcp-fhir framework. In: 2025 IEEE World AI IoT Congress (AIIoT). pp. 0205–0211 (2025) 8. Ehtesham, A., Singh, A., Kumar, S.: Enhancing clinical decision support and ehr insights through llms and the model context protocol: An open-source mcp-fhir framework. In: 2025 IEEE World AI IoT Congress (AIIoT). pp. 0205–0211. IEEE (2025) 9. Fang, J., Yao, Z., Wang, R., Ma, H., Wang, X., Chua, T.S.: We should identify and mitigate third-party safety risks in mcp-powered agent systems. arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.13666 (2025) 10. Gordon, M.I., Kim, D., Perkins, J.H., Gilham, L., Nguyen, N., Rinard, M.C.: Infor-mation flow analysis of android applications in droidsafe. In: NDSS. vol. 15, p. 110 (2015) 11. Gu, S., Rong, G., Zhang, H., Shen, H.: Logging practices in software engineering: A systematic mapping study. IEEE transactions on software engineering 49 (2), 902–923 (2022) 12. Guo, Y., Liu, P., Ma, W., Deng, Z., Zhu, X., Di, P., Xiao, X., Wen, S.: Systematic analysis of mcp security. arXiv preprint arXiv:2508.12538 (2025) 13. Han, R., Gong, H., Ma, S., Li, J., Xu, C., Bertino, E., Nepal, S., Ma, Z., Ma, J.: A credential usage study: flow-aware leakage detection in open-source projects. IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics and Security 19 , 722–734 (2023) 14. Hasan, M.M., Li, H., Rajbahadur, G.K., Adams, B., Hassan, A.E.: Model context protocol (mcp) tool descriptions are smelly! towards improving ai agent efficiency with augmented mcp tool descriptions. arXiv preprint arXiv:2602.14878 (2026) 15. Hou, X., Zhao, Y., Wang, S., Wang, H.: Model context protocol (mcp): Landscape, security threats, and future research directions. ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology (2025) 16. Karimova, S., Dadashova, U.: The model context protocol: A standardization anal-ysis for application integration. Journal of Computer Science and Digital Technolo-gies 1(1), 50–59 (2025) 17. Kumar, S., Girdhar, A., Patil, R., Tripathi, D.: Mcp guardian: A security-first layer for safeguarding mcp-based ai system. arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.12757 (2025) 18. Li, L., Bartel, A., Klein, J., Traon, Y.L., Arzt, S., Rasthofer, S., Bodden, E., Octeau, D., Mcdaniel, P.: I know what leaked in your pocket: uncovering privacy leaks on android apps with static taint analysis. arXiv preprint arXiv:1404.7431 (2014) 19. Li, Z., Ma, B., Dai, X., Xu, M., Zhang, Y., Yan, B., Li, K.: Don’t believe every-thing you read: Understanding and measuring mcp behavior under misleading tool descriptions. arXiv preprint arXiv:2602.03580 (2026) 20. Liu, T., Deng, Z., Meng, G., Li, Y., Chen, K.: Demystifying rce vulnerabilities in llm-integrated apps. In: Proceedings of the 2024 on ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security. pp. 1716–1730 (2024) 18 B. Yan et al. 21. Liu, Y., Jia, Y., Geng, R., Jia, J., Gong, N.Z.: Formalizing and benchmarking prompt injection attacks and defenses. In: 33rd USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 24). pp. 1831–1847 (2024) 22. Liu, Y., Jia, Y., Jia, J., Song, D., Gong, N.Z.: Datasentinel: A game-theoretic detection of prompt injection attacks. In: 2025 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP). pp. 2190–2208. IEEE (2025) 23. Model Context Protocol: Model context protocol. https:// modelcontextprotocol.io/specification/2025-03-26 (Mar 2025), version 2025-03-26 24. Model Context Protocol: What is the model context protocol (mcp)? https: //modelcontextprotocol.io/docs/getting-started/intro (2026), official doc-umentation. Accessed: 2026-04-18 25. Radosevich, B., Halloran, J.: Mcp safety audit: Llms with the model context pro-tocol allow major security exploits. arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.03767 (2025) 26. Shehab, M.A.: Agentic-ai healthcare: Multilingual, privacy-first framework with mcp agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2510.02325 (2025) 27. Shen, X., Chen, Z., Backes, M., Shen, Y., Zhang, Y.: "do anything now": Char-acterizing and evaluating in-the-wild jailbreak prompts on large language models. In: Proceedings of the 2024 on ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Com-munications Security. pp. 1671–1685 (2024) 28. Sun, Y., Du, L., Su, Z., Wang, Y., Liu, H., Zhao, Q., Niu, X.: Msa: A cross-mcp privacy attack via memory exfiltration of large language models. In: Proceedings of the 24th Workshop on Privacy in the Electronic Society. pp. 177–182 (2025) 29. T, S., Chandran, A.A., L, G., M, P.: Smart air quality monitoring with model context protocol for environmental safety technology. In: 2025 3rd International Conference on Inventive Computing and Informatics (ICICI). pp. 01–07 (2025) 30. Wang, B., He, W., Zeng, S., Xiang, Z., Xing, Y., Tang, J., He, P.: Unveiling privacy risks in llm agent memory. In: Proceedings of the 63rd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers). pp. 25241– 25260 (2025) 31. Wang, Y., Zou, W., Geng, R., Jia, J., Model, R.: Tracllm: A generic framework for attributing long context llms. In: 34rd USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 25) (2025) 32. Wu, Q., Bansal, G., Zhang, J., Wu, Y., Li, B., Zhu, E., Jiang, L., Zhang, X., Zhang, S., Liu, J., et al.: Autogen: Enabling next-gen llm applications via multi-agent conversations. In: First conference on language modeling (2024) 33. Yang, Y., Li, C., Li, Q., Ma, O., Wang, H., Wang, Z., Gao, Y., Chen, W., Ji, S., Model, R.: Prsa: Prompt stealing attacks against real-world prompt services. In: 34rd USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 25) (2025) 34. Yi, J., Xie, Y., Zhu, B., Kiciman, E., Sun, G., Xie, X., Wu, F.: Benchmarking and defending against indirect prompt injection attacks on large language models. In: Proceedings of the 31st ACM SIGKDD Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining V. 1. pp. 1809–1820 (2025) 35. Zhan, Q., Liang, Z., Ying, Z., Kang, D.: Injecagent: Benchmarking indirect prompt injections in tool-integrated large language model agents. In: Findings of the As-sociation for Computational Linguistics: ACL 2024. pp. 10471–10506 (2024) 36. Zhang, Z., Guo, B., Li, T.: Privacy leakage overshadowed by views of ai: A study on human oversight of privacy in language model agent. arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.01344 (2024) Detecting Privacy Leakage Risks in MCP Servers 19 37. Zhao, S., Hou, Q., Zhan, Z., Wang, Y., Xie, Y., Guo, Y., Chen, L., Li, S., Xue, Z.: Mind your server: A systematic study of parasitic toolchain attacks on the mcp ecosystem. arXiv preprint arXiv:2509.06572 (2025)