Title: TraceLib: System-Call Bitmap Feedback Mechanism for Language-Agnostic Web Fuzzing

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2609.34778v1

Published Time: Tue, 29 Sep 2026 03:44:25 GMT

Number of Pages: 15

Markdown Content:
> 1

# TraceLib: System-Call Bitmap Feedback Mechanism for Language-Agnostic Web Fuzzing 

I Putu Arya Dharmaadi , Elias Athanasopoulos , and Fatih Turkmen 

Abstract —Coverage feedback is an important source of guid-ance for fuzzing. However, obtaining such feedback normally requires application-level instrumentation that is specific to the language and runtime of the application. Given that modern web applications span multiple languages and runtimes, this application-level instrumentation is costly to implement and maintain. Therefore, we present TraceLib, a system-call feedback mechanism for enabling language-agnostic web fuzzing. Our proposed approach observes the transitions of system calls, enriches selected transitions with bounded argument hashes, and converts them into a 65,536-position AFL-like bitmap. By using the generated bitmap, any web fuzzer can decide whether to retain requests that add previously unseen bitmap positions without consulting application code coverage. We integrate TraceLib into WebFuzz and evaluate it under five WebFuzz feedback modes: the two proposed TraceLib variants (one over every traced system call and one projected onto mon-itored file paths and recognized SQL buffers), the N-gram com-parator adapted from Xiao et al. [27] representing the most recent work to our knowledge, WebFuzz’s Native grey-box feedback, and black-box fuzzing without feedback. We evaluate TraceLib on sixteen web applications under test (WUTs): eight PHP applications, and eight further applications spanning Node.js, Ruby, Java, Go and Python to demonstrate platform portability. The results show that our proposed TraceLib projected exceeds black-box on all eight PHP WUTs while exceeding Native on four: Joomla, Drupal, PrestaShop, and Bagisto. In addition, measured on an identical replayed request workload, the tracer costs approximately one millisecond of server-side latency per request. These results indicate that compact system-call feedback is a useful runtime-independent proxy for coverage guidance. Open problems include the restriction to one active request at a time, dependence on application externalization, and reduced effectiveness on encrypted database connections. 

Index Terms —language-agnostic, web fuzzer, syscall, trace. 

I. I NTRODUCTION 

Software vulnerabilities continue to pose a critical threat to modern digital infrastructure, and fuzzing has become one of the most effective and widely adopted techniques for automated vulnerability discovery [28]. Fuzzers can trigger unexpected behaviors and crash-inducing conditions that de-velopers may never have anticipated by automatically generat-ing and executing large numbers of controlled random inputs [30]. In particular, coverage-guided fuzzing has demonstrated remarkable success in detecting memory corruption and logic 

First Author is with the Bernoulli Institute, University of Groningen, the Netherlands, and the Faculty of Engineering, Udayana University, Indonesia. Email: arya.dharmaadi@rug.nl. Second Author is with the Department of Computer Science, University of Cyprus, Cyprus. Third Author is with the Bernoulli Institute, University of Groningen, the Netherlands. 

TABLE I: Comparison of grey-box web fuzzers for PHP-based web applications, our proposed Agnostic Fuzzer 

with TraceLib , and black-box fuzzers (which are inherently language-agnostic as well). 

Fuzzer Name Internal Required Modifications Feedback Source Code Interpreter 

WebFuzz [20] ✓ ✓ -Witcher [24] ✓ - ✓

Atropos [11] ✓ - ✓

Phuzz [19] ✓ - ✓

Agnostic Fuzzer ✓ - -Black-box Fuzzers - - -

bugs in native applications by leveraging lightweight feedback mechanisms, such as instrumentation-based code coverage [4]. Tools such as AFL [29], AFL++ [9], and libFuzzer [16] have significantly advanced the field by applying coverage feedback to guide fuzzing inputs more intelligently. This strategy has proven effective at exposing hidden bugs in complex, widely deployed software systems. In the domain of web applications, grey-box web fuzzers have also emerged, which incorporate lightweight runtime feedback, typically in the form of code coverage, to guide fuzzing more effectively. These tools often instrument the source code or runtime environment of the Web application Under Test (WUT), enabling them to prioritize inputs that explore new execution paths (see Table I). A notable example is WebFuzz [20], which applies Abstract Syntax Tree (AST)-level instrumentation to PHP applications to collect code coverage and guide corpus selection. Other examples include Witcher [24], which modifies the PHP engine (i.e., interpreter) to collect code coverage to guide fuzzing, and Atropos [11], which modifies the web engine (i.e., server) in addition to the interpreter to collect all compared strings. Although instrumentation and server-modification tech-niques provide effective guidance for fuzzing, they introduce significant practical limitations because they are closely tied to the programming language or runtime environment, restricting the applicability of many fuzzing frameworks to a narrow range of platforms and technologies. In applications built using multiple languages or heterogeneous technology stacks, applying instrumentation consistently across all components may require substantial engineering effort. These limitations underscore the need for a language-agnostic feedback-driven fuzzing approach, referred to as Ag-nostic Fuzzer in what follows, that preserves the advantages of grey-box fuzzing, namely guided input generation, without arXiv:2609.34778v1 [cs.SE] 28 Sep 2026 2

relying on language-specific instrumentation. Decoupling the feedback mechanism from the internal structure of the appli-cation and from its language-specific runtime enables broader applicability of the approach to diverse web applications, par-ticularly those composed of multiple programming languages or frameworks. To address this issue, this paper explores the possibil-ity of leveraging externally observable runtime behaviors, specifically system-call traces, as internal execution feedback for fuzzing of web applications. By collecting system-call transitions and bounded hashes derived from selected argu-ments, a web fuzzer can prioritize inputs that trigger new behaviors, enabling deeper exploration of application logic in a non-intrusive and scalable manner. This design preserves the feedback-guided fuzzing loop while decoupling its guidance mechanism from the WUT’s implementation language. More importantly, it can support fuzz testing across a diverse set of web languages and execution environments. We implement this idea in C as an eBPF-based collector named TraceLib . eBPF (extended Berkeley Packet Filter) is a Linux kernel technology that allows monitoring programs to be attached to kernel hooks or events, such as those triggered when the web server performs system-call operations [8]. Using this technology, TraceLib tracks the system calls of specific web server process IDs, converts argument-selective system-call transitions into 65,536-byte AFL-like bitmaps, and delivers the bitmaps via POSIX shared memory. Then, we attach TraceLib to WebFuzz [20] to produce Agnostic Fuzzer 

by replacing WebFuzz’s original source code instrumentation while preserving its overall architecture. Selecting WebFuzz as the baseline is natural because it relies solely on crawling and guided mutations to extend coverage, and its novel instru-mentation captures actual edge transitions, which are suitable for evaluating syscall guidance. We then evaluate our proposed TraceLib against WebFuzz’s Native grey-box mode, black-box mode, and another TraceLib configuration that adapts the N-gram system-call pattern cover-age proposed by Xiao et al. [27]. To focus on feedback-guided fuzzing rather than endpoint discovery, we skip the crawling phase in WebFuzz, ensuring that every campaign receives the same 10 validated GET endpoints as seeds. Every campaign runs with 1 worker for 2 hours and is repeated three times. The evaluation includes 8 popular PHP-based WUTs and 8 non-PHP WUTs to broaden the portability study to Go, Python, Ruby, Java, and Node.js. The results show that the best of our proposed TraceLib variants, namely TraceLib projected, exceeds black-box on all eight PHP-based WUTs and exceeds Native on four: Joomla, Drupal, PrestaShop, and Bagisto. Averaged over the eight PHP-based WUTs and three campaigns, TraceLib projected reaches 11.21% coverage, compared with 11.15% for Native. In addition, measured on an identical replayed re-quest workload, the tracer costs approximately one millisecond of server-side latency per request. The results support system-call feedback as a useful runtime-independent guidance proxy, while some limitations need to be addressed for future work. 

Contributions 

In summary, we make the following contributions. 1) New Language-Agnostic Feedback Method for Web Fuzzing: To provide coverage feedback for web fuzzing without relying on language-specific instrumentation, we propose a system-call-based feedback method. The method extracts transitions between selected system calls and incorporates bounded hashes of their arguments to capture web application behavior. This approach removes the need for source-code access or language-specific runtime support while remaining non-intrusive to the target application. 2) Analysis of Syscall-based Feedback Challenges: We identify and analyze three obstacles that make raw system-call tracing difficult to use as web-fuzzing feed-back: associating system calls with individual HTTP re-quests, bridging the abstraction gap between system-call activity and application-level behavior, and delivering feedback with sufficiently low latency (Section III). 3) TraceLib Implementation: To realize the proposed feedback method, we develop TraceLib , a tool that traces system calls from specific web server processes, converts the observed transitions into AFL-like coverage bitmaps, and delivers the resulting feedback through POSIX shared memory. We release the implementation of TraceLib in our public repository 1 to support repro-ducibility and further research. 4) Multi-Runtime Evaluation: To assess the effectiveness and applicability of the proposed approach, we evalu-ate TraceLib on 16 WUTs implemented in PHP, Go, Python, Ruby, Java, and Node.js. We compare it against WebFuzz’s Native grey-box mode, a black-box mode, and an N-gram system-call feedback method adapted from Xiao et al. [27]. We evaluate application coverage, feedback alignment, runtime overhead, and applicability across different language runtimes. II. B ACKGROUND 

In this section, we provide background on fuzzing and system calls. 

A. Fuzzing 

Fuzzing is a software testing technique that involves auto-matically generating and executing large numbers of inputs to trigger unexpected behaviors, such as crashes, assertion failures, or memory errors [14] [17]. Basically, a fuzzer operates in an iterative loop that typically consists of three key stages: input generation, execution, and evaluation [13] [6]. During input generation, the fuzzer mutates or synthesizes new test cases; during execution, these inputs are run against the target program; and in the evaluation stage, the fuzzer inspects the outcome to determine whether the input uncovered new behavior or caused a failure. Among these stages, the feedback gained in the evaluation step is the critical part because it steers the whole process.                         

> 1https://github.com/websecfuzz/tracelib 3
> getcwd("/myproject", 4096) =11 newfstatat(AT_FDCWD, "/myproject/..... newfstatat(AT_FDCWD, "/usr/local/.... newfstatat(AT_FDCWD, "/myproject/wp-.... openat(AT_FDCWD, "/myproject/wp-.... newfstatat(8, "", {st_mode=S_IFREG|.... read(8, "<?php\r\n/**\r\n *Contains.... fcntl(3, F_SETLKW, {l_type=F_WRLCK, .... fcntl(3, F_SETLK, {l_type=F_UNLCK, .... close(8) =0sendto(7, "Q\0\0\0\3SELECT option_v.... poll([{fd=7, events=POLLIN|POLLERR|.... recvfrom(7, "\1\0\0\1\1D\0\0\2\3def....

Fig. 1: An example of system-call traces captured from a PHP web server executing WordPress [26]. Certain system calls provide useful information for execution path selection, such as openat indicating a file being opened and sendto showing submitted SQL queries. 

1) Feedback-guided Fuzzing: Feedback-guided fuzzing uses runtime information (such as code coverage or application state changes) to steer input generation toward unexplored behaviors. It monitors how inputs affect execution and uses this feedback to create new, more promising inputs that reach new parts of the program. Tools like AFL insert compiler-level instrumentation into the software under test to obtain internal feedback at runtime, while others (e.g., libFuzzer and SanitizerCoverage) rely on built-in hooks from the compiler or runtime environment. 

2) Code Coverage and Bitmap File: The coverage that is collected by the feedback-guided fuzzing is often represented as a bitmap that tracks edges or basic blocks executed during a run. A bitmap file is a data structure with a fixed-size array of bytes, often 64 KB (65,536 bytes). Each byte of the bitmap corresponds to a hashed representation of a program edge, making each entry in the bitmap function as a coarse-grained indicator of whether a particular control-flow edge or block has been observed. When a new input toggles a previously unset bitmap entry, the fuzzer interprets this as evidence of novel behavior and records the input as part of its evolving corpus. 

B. System Calls 

System call is a programmatic way for a computer program to request a service from the operating system’s kernel, such as accessing hardware, managing files, creating or controlling processes, or communicating between programs [3]. Since user-space programs are restricted from performing these operations directly, system calls act as a strictly controlled gateway between user mode and kernel mode [23]. They ensure security, isolation, and stability across processes and applications. In practice, system calls are typically invoked through wrapper functions provided by standard libraries (e.g., glibc on Linux) [2]. Figure 1 shows an example trace of system calls executed by a PHP web server. Each request typically involves dozens to hundreds of syscalls, such as openat , read , getcwd ,

recvfrom , and sendto , reflecting the wide range of inter-actions between the application and the underlying operating system. When system calls are traced, such as via ptrace 

[15], strace [22], eBPF [8], or custom syscall monitors, additional overhead is introduced. Each entry and exit from a syscall may generate multiple context switches between the tracer and the tracee. Even though syscall tracing can be particularly expensive, it provides an informative layer for observing program behavior. III. C HALLENGES OF APPLYING SYSCALL TRACING 

As explained in Section I and Section II-B, syscall-level tracing offers a compelling alternative to conventional code-coverage feedback for grey-box web application fuzzing, which commonly relies on code instrumentation. In addition to eliminating instrumentation-related activities, syscall tracing provides visibility into low-level behaviors that might oth-erwise be inaccessible through source-level instrumentation. However, there are certain technical challenges that must be overcome to make syscall-driven feedback a practical substi-tute for traditional coverage metrics in grey-box web fuzzing. In what follows, we discuss at these challenges. 

A. Challenge 1: Trace-Request Association 

The first challenge concerns accurately attributing syscall traces to individual HTTP requests. Unlike binary fuzzing, where a single target process handles exactly one input per execution, a web server is a long-running process that services many requests over its lifetime. The fundamental difficulty is not merely collecting syscall events from the right processes, but establishing clear boundaries between the events belonging to one request and those belonging to the next. Since the tracer observes a continuous stream of syscall events from a persistent server process, there is no inherent OS-level signal that marks where the handling of one HTTP request ends and the handling of the next begins. Without such boundaries, it is impossible to reliably construct a bitmap that reflects the execution triggered by a single input. This boundary problem is further complicated by the di-versity of web server process architectures. Different server designs expose fundamentally different relationships between processes and requests. In master-worker architectures such as Apache with PHP, a master process accepts incoming connections and delegates request handling to a pool of worker processes, each of which may serve multiple sequential requests over its lifetime. In contrast, event-driven single-process architectures such as Node.js handle all requests within a single long-running process, multiplexing them through an asynchronous event loop. Between these extremes lie hybrid models such as Gunicorn and PHP-FPM, which maintain worker pools of varying sizes with different request assign-ment strategies. Because the mapping between processes, threads, and individual HTTP requests differs substantially across these architectures, it is challenging to design a single fixed strategy for associating syscall events with requests. 4

B. Challenge 2: Information Mismatch 

The second challenge in adopting syscall-level tracing as feedback for web application fuzzing arises from the mismatch between the level of abstraction at which system calls operate and the logical structure of web applications. System calls capture low-level interactions such as reading from sockets, writing to files, allocating memory, or spawning threads. Although these operations are essential for program execution, they provide only indirect evidence related to the control flow or state transitions triggered by a web request. In addition, syscall sequences are shaped not only by application logic but also by runtime subsystems, such as garbage collectors, com-pilers, cryptography libraries, TLS stacks, and asynchronous schedulers. These components introduce additional noise that further obscures the relationship between syscall traces and the execution paths taken by the application. Consequently, this challenge raises a practical design question of whether to use the full syscall trace or to retain only syscalls likely to reflect application-level logic. Filtering the trace to semantically relevant syscalls, such as file operations ( open , read , write , close ), process operations (execve , fork , clone ), network operations (connect , accept , send , recv ), and inter-process com-munication ( socket ), may improve signal quality at the cost of potentially discarding informative events. However, whether filtered traces empirically produce better fuzzing guidance than unfiltered traces is not proven yet, since some noisy syscalls may still encode useful distinctions between execution paths. We therefore treat this as an empirical question and evaluate both configurations (described in Section IV-C4) to determine which setting produces superior coverage guidance. 

C. Challenge 3: Result Delivery 

Once syscall-level information is collected, the feedback must be delivered back to the fuzzing engine quickly enough to guide input generation in near real time. WebFuzz [20], the conventional web grey-box fuzzer, relies on a simple, file-based communication mechanism: the WUT writes coverage to a designated file, and the fuzzer repeatedly polls or reads that file after each test execution. Although this approach is easy to implement and largely language-agnostic, forwarding every observed system call to userspace or writing every event to a file would introduce substantial data-transfer costs. A prac-tical delivery mechanism must therefore aggregate frequent events before they cross into userspace, publish one complete result for each request, and prevent the fuzzer from reading a partially updated map. IV. P ROPOSED APPROACH 

To address the aforementioned challenges, we propose TraceLib, a language-agnostic syscall tracing library that pro-vides per-request coverage feedback for web fuzzers without requiring any modification to the web application’s source code or runtime interpreter for guidance. Ultimately, this tool guides web fuzzing by identifying requests that produce previously unexplored positions in the system-call bitmap. 

Fig. 2: Web fuzzing and traceLib overview. 

Fig. 3: TraceLib request-to-feedback workflow. 

A. TraceLib Overview 

TraceLib operates as an independent process that runs alongside the WUT during a fuzzing session. It requires only one mandatory configuration input from the user: the TCP port number on which the web server listens, to-gether with an optional request-identifier header name (de-fault X-REQUEST-ID ). From this starting point, TraceLib autonomously identifies the relevant server processes, observes their system-call activity through eBPF tracepoints, and pro-duces per-request coverage bitmaps. The fuzzer communicates with TraceLib exclusively through two channels: a custom HTTP request header that carries a unique request identifier, and the /dev/shm filesystem from which the fuzzer reads the resulting bitmap after each request is executed (see Figure 2). As illustrated in Figure 3, TraceLib has four main compo-nents: a Port-to-PID Resolver that maps the target port to a set of server process IDs; a Tracer that observes system calls from those process groups; a Bitmap Builder that converts the observed syscall stream into an AFL-like coverage bitmap; and a Request Demultiplexer that associates each bitmap with the correct fuzzer request via the HTTP header identifier. These components and their interactions are described in the following subsections. 5                           

> getcwd ---> newfstatat =20230 [3] newfstatat ---> newfstatat =1542 [120] newfstatat ---> open(home.php) =27411 [2] open(home.php) ---> open(main.php) =16879 [2] open(main.php) ---> sendto(SELECT *FROM data) =28108 [1]

Fig. 4: Illustration of how system-call transitions are recorded. Using the concatenation method in Section IV-C, TraceLib assigns the ID of 20230 to the transition from getcwd to 

newfstatat . Therefore, in the bitmap file, the index of 20230 contains the value 3, which is the number of times this transition occurs. When a syscall brings a useful argument, such as open , the argument is included in the hash calculation (explained further in Section IV-C1). 

B. Target Process Discovery 

To address the trace-request association challenge (Section III-A), TraceLib resolves the set of process IDs associated with the target port by cross-referencing /proc/net/tcp 

and /proc/net/tcp6 with the file descriptor tables under 

/proc/[pid]/fd/ . The resolver identifies socket inodes 

listening on the configured port and locates the processes whose file descriptors refer to those inodes . It then inserts the corresponding thread-group identifiers (TGIDs) into an eBPF target map. While each thread has its own thread identifier (TID) in Linux, a TGID is a process-level identifier that is shared among all threads belonging to the same process. When a web server starts, TraceLib attaches eBPF programs to raw_syscalls:sys_enter and 

raw_syscalls:sys_exit , two kernel tracepoints that fire whenever any process enters or exits the kernel to perform a system call. Each tracepoint invocation checks whether the current TGID is present in the target map before performing request detection or feedback collection. Because the filter is applied by TGID, system calls from all threads belonging to a tracked process are observed without attaching to every TID individually. When a tracked process successfully executes clone ,

fork , or vfork , TraceLib inserts the returned child identifier into the target map. This mechanism keeps newly created server workers visible for tracking. Consequently, TraceLib can monitor system-call activities from both the original server process and its subsequently created workers. 

C. Tracing and Behavioral Monitoring 

To address the information mismatch challenge (Sec-tion III-B), TraceLib observes the system-call transitions exe-cuted by the target processes identified in the previous section. Each resulting transition is then assigned a 16-bit transition ID (TrID) and accumulated in an AFL-style coverage map consisting of 65,536 saturating eight-bit counters. TraceLib produces the transition ID by concatenating the previous and current system-call numbers. Each call number, which commonly uses 9 bits in the x86-64 architecture, must be reduced to 8 bits in order to fit a 16-bit transition ID. Then, each 8-bit component additionally carries an 8-bit hash of that call’s argument, for the reason given in Section IV-C1. Therefore, given ni and nj as the syscall numbers of syscalls 

i and j, respectively, the TrID from syscall i to syscall j is defined as: 

TrID( i, j ) = ˆ ni || ˆnj , ˆni = ( ni mod 256) ⊕ αi (1) where || denotes concatenation, ⊕ denotes bitwise XOR, and αi is the 8-bit argument hash of call i, defined in Section IV-C1. This concatenation method is different from AFL-based fuzzers, which use the XOR operation for generating an ID for block transitions. AFL can afford XOR because it assigns every basic block a random identifier, so that the randomness spreads pairs evenly over the map. On the other hand, syscall numbers are dense, small integers from a narrow range, for which an XOR produces collisions immediately. For example, a transition from call 1 (bit: 01) to call 2 (bit: 10) and one from call 3 (bit: 11) to call 0 (bit: 00) would address the same cell, namely bit 11. 

1) Argument-Selective System-Call Transitions: To produce an accurate coverage map, the use of transitions between system calls alone is too coarse for web workloads. Based on our observations, a request commonly performs thousands of openat and write calls whose meaning often depends on the arguments used in the call. TraceLib therefore includes argument information in the TrID calculation (Equation 1), but restricts it to the two argument families that are both semantically meaningful and stable across repetitions of the same request: file paths and SQL statements. More formally, the following hashes are used to calculate 

α in Equation (1) is: 

αi =



h(κ(pi)) , si opens or executes a file ,h(c(wi)) , si writes a SQL query ,

0, otherwise ,

(2) where pi is the path argument of open , openat , openat2 ,or execve ; wi is the buffer of write , writev , or sendto ;

κ(·) is the path policy presented in Section IV-C2; c(·) is the compact query encoding presented in Section IV-C3; and h(·)

is a one-byte hash function using djb2 method [21]. 

2) File Path Filtering and Canonicalization: Our ob-servations of a system-call activity show that web appli-cations often access files that are unrelated to the ap-plication code. For example, a web request may invoke 

openat("/tmp/cache/sess_a91f2c.tmp") , where the cache file name may be generated differently for each execution. Consequently, two identical requests that run the same application code and follow the same execution path can produce different system-call traces solely because these dynamically generated file names differ. Therefore, TraceLib provides three mechanisms for controlling file-path monitor-ing. Together they define the function κ(·) of Equation (2), which returns the path that reaches the hash or nothing at all. The TRACELIB_FILE_PATH_MONITORED environment variable specifies the directory whose file accesses should be monitored, with /var/www as the default value. When this variable is set, only file accesses to paths under the specified 6

directory are included in transition calculations. The default suits PHP deployments; for the other runtimes, the monitored root is set per application to the directory the running process actually reads from. For example, a Ruby-based application is set to monitor files at /usr/src .In addition, TRACELIB_EXCLUDED_FILE_PATH speci-fies a file path or path component to exclude from monitoring, with temp as the default value. Thus, accesses matching the excluded path are ignored even when they fall within the monitored directory. The last mechanism is canonicalization, applied to every surviving path before it is hashed. Its purpose is to suppress noise caused by path components that are generated dynam-ically (and even randomly) and may therefore differ across executions of the same request, even when the underlying application behavior is identical. To remove this noise, a path component that is entirely numeric is replaced by #. In addition to the numeric path, a path component that has eight or more hexadecimal characters (e.g., content-addressed names, cache keys), or sixteen or more alphanumerics that mix case and contain a digit (e.g., session identifiers, framework tokens) is replaced by #. 

3) Compact SQL Query Encoding: Hashing a SQL query verbatim would be ineffective since ten executions of the same code may issue queries with different values resulting with a unique hash, and therefore every value would look like a new behavior. The compact function c(·) in Equation (2) is designed to remove this noise. Instead of preserving the entire query, it extracts only two components that are important for identifying the database operation: the SQL commands and the table names. For example, a query of              

> SELECT p.* FROM posts pLEFT JOIN postmeta mON m.post_id =p.ID WHERE p.author_id =7

is reduced to be:  

> <<SELECT,LEFT JOIN>><<POSTS,POSTMETA>>

We design this compact query approach to be simple to implement. Rather than parsing the full SQL grammar, it recognizes SQL commands using a predefined dictionary and extracts table names based on the keywords that introduce them, such as FROM , JOIN , UPDATE , and INTO . All other parts of the query are discarded. This design keeps the encoder lightweight while retaining information about which database operations and tables are involved. 

Alternative Query Reduction: We also considered a more direct reduction strategy that removes only the user values from the query while preserving the rest of the statement. Although this strategy can remove value-dependent noise, it is harder to implement. First, user values can appear in many different positions within a query, making it difficult to define general rules that identify and remove them. Second, complex web applications often construct queries from nested variables, so the textual structure may change even when the underlying database operation is logically the same. For example, an array used in an IN clause may produce IN (7) for one element and IN (7, 8, 9) for three elements. Even after removing the values, the number of commas differs, causing the same web code to produce different hashes. We therefore use the compact representation above, which focuses on SQL commands and table names rather than attempting to normalize the full query text. 

4) Two TraceLib Modes: For a more comprehensive evalua-tion, we create two TraceLib modes that differ in which system calls are included in the transition calculation: TraceLib plain 

and TraceLib projected . Both modes use the same encoding approach described above. However, TraceLib plain includes all system calls in the transition calculation, regardless of their arguments, whereas TraceLib projected records only system calls for which αi̸ = 0 . The motivation for TraceLib projected 

is to approximate application-level code behavior by focusing on transitions involving semantically meaningful resources, such as opening files and executing SQL queries. 

5) N-Gram Comparator: In addition, to provide a meaning-ful comparison with prior work on system-call feedback, we also create an N-gram comparator adapted (named TraceLib nGram ) from the system-call pattern coverage proposed by Xiao et al. [27]. Although their approach was proposed for binary applications rather than web applications, the un-derlying feedback representation is directly relevant to our work. To ensure a consistent comparison, we adopt its N-gram representation and implement it within the same tracing framework as TraceLib, rather than using the exact code of the original implementation. Specifically, this N-gram comparator uses the same process discovery, eBPF tracepoints, request demultiplexer, argument hash function, map size, and bitmap path as TraceLib. Therefore, both approaches use the same mechanisms to identify and trace target processes; they differ only in how they represent observed system-call behavior as feedback. The N-gram comparator represents each system-call event as a 16-bit token composed of the 8-bit system-call number and the 8-bit argument hash. Unlike the argument-selective approach used by TraceLib, it incorporates all available ar-gument data when computing the argument hash. Moreover, rather than using transitions between two consecutive system calls as in TraceLib, the N-gram comparator hashes a window of the four most recent tokens and a window of the eight most recent tokens to produce TrID. 

D. Request Demultiplexing 

To address the trace-request association challenge (Section III-A), TraceLib associates each bitmap with its originating HTTP request through a cooperative mechanism between web fuzzer and TraceLib. The fuzzer embeds a unique identifier in a designated HTTP header (default X-REQUEST-ID )of every request. Because the identifier is carried within the HTTP request itself, we refer to this as an in-band request identifier . TraceLib then observes this header on both the inbound path, by scanning read /recvfrom pay-loads at syscall exit, and the outbound path, by scanning 

write /send /sendto /writev payloads at syscall entry. While the inbound scan is crucial for typical servers that process the request but do not include that custom header in 7

their HTTP response sent back to the client, the outbound scan covers frameworks that echo the custom header back. TraceLib uses the custom header value as the name of a fresh bitmap and records all subsequent syscall events into it until the response is emitted or the next HTTP header is recognized. The finalized bitmap is written to /dev/shm under the request identifier, where the fuzzer retrieves it by name. 

1) Non-concurrent Request Requirement: To ensure that the active bitmap contains feedback attributable to a single request, TraceLib requires the web fuzzer to issue requests sequentially, with at most one request being processed at a time. Concurrent requests could cause system-call transitions from different re-quests to be recorded in the same bitmap, making it impossible to reliably associate the collected feedback with an individual request. This design is consistent with the isolated-execution model of common binary fuzzers such as AFL. 

2) Alternative Prefork-Child Association: Another possible way to address the trace-request association challenge is to configure Apache mpm_prefork with 

MaxConnectionsPerChild 1, which makes each worker process serve exactly one request and then die. The request to which a bitmap belongs is then recovered from the Apache access log, which maps the request_ID in the header to the process_ID .This technique allows the web fuzzer to send concurrent requests; however, it is structurally tied to the Apache schema, which implements a master-worker architecture. In contrast, event-driven single-process architectures, such as Node.js, handle all requests within a single long-running process and multiplex them through an asynchronous event loop, making the prefork-child-as-request approach unsuitable. Therefore, rather than adopting the prefork-child mecha-nism, TraceLib uses the in-band request identifier with the non-concurrent request requirement as its primary design because this approach does not depend on a particular web-server process model and is more broadly applicable across different server architectures. 

3) Start-Stop Syscall Recording: Since the kernel provides no information about HTTP request boundaries, TraceLib needs to identify the beginning and end of each request from the data exchanged by the server. As explained before, TraceLib detects the request ID in incoming data to mark the start of a request. When a new ID is detected, any previously active request is finalized, and a new coverage map is opened. If the same ID is seen again, the existing request remains active. To detect the end of a request, we define the following rules. First, TraceLib can detect the beginning of an HTTP response. By default, the current configuration treats the first HTTP/1. 

status line as the end of the active request. Second, TraceLib uses a 500 ms idle timeout. If the server becomes completely inactive for this period, the current request is finalized. The timer is based on activity across the traced server rather than on a single thread. Finally, a request ends when a new request ID is detected or when the traced process shuts down. 

E. In-Kernel Aggregation and Bitmap Delivery 

To address the result delivery challenge described in Sec-tion III-C, TraceLib performs feedback aggregation in the kernel and delivers completed bitmaps to userspace through a double-buffered eBPF map and the tmpfs-backed /dev/shm 

filesystem. The map consists of two 65,536-byte halves, al-lowing one half to collect feedback for the active request while userspace processes the completed bitmap in the other half. Each observed system call updates the active half of the BPF map in kernel context, avoiding the need to transfer individual system-call events to userspace. When a request is finalized, TraceLib switches to the other half of the map and copies the completed 65,536-byte bitmap to a file named 

/dev/shm/<request-id> .V. A GNOSTIC WEB FUZZER FRAMEWORK 

To make TraceLib usable in practice, we design an agnostic web fuzzing framework by combining TraceLib’s language-agnostic coverage feedback with an existing coverage-guided web fuzzer. We first motivate our choice of base fuzzer, then describe its original architecture and the targeted modifications required to replace its native instrumentation with TraceLib. 

A. Rationale for a Whole-Application Base 

Existing grey-box web fuzzers fall into two broad categories that address fundamentally different research questions. First, 

per-endpoint fuzzers , such as Witcher [24], Atropos [11], and Phuzz [19], take a single URL or script as input and exercise it intensively for a fixed time budget. Each endpoint is fuzzed with its own configuration and fuzzer instance, to explore one code path as thoroughly as possible. The fuzzer cannot freely explore all routes and endpoints in a single, shared, app-wide session. On the other hand, whole-application fuzzers , such as WebFuzz [20], treat the web application as a complete system: they crawl its endpoints dynamically, maintain a corpus of re-quests spanning multiple handlers, and allocate fuzzing effort across the entire application based on accumulated coverage feedback. Their goal is to measure and improve how broadly a fuzzer can navigate a realistic application surface. Since these two categories are different, a direct head-to-head comparison would conflate two unrelated capabilities. For the research question addressed in this paper, which is whether a language-agnostic coverage signal can effectively guide fuzzing across heterogeneous web applications, whole-application coverage is the more informative evaluation metric, since it reflects the fuzzer’s ability to explore applications of realistic complexity rather than isolated scripts selected in advance. We therefore adopt a whole-application fuzzer as the base for our Agnostic Fuzzer. Within this category, WebFuzz is the natural choice. 

B. WebFuzz Architecture 

WebFuzz [20] is a grey-box web fuzzer, which maintains a corpus of HTTP requests and iteratively mutates them to explore the application. At startup, WebFuzz crawls the WUT to discover its endpoints and seed the corpus with requests that 8

reach each one. During fuzzing, it repeatedly selects a request from the corpus, applies mutation operators to its parameters and payloads, issues the mutated request, and collects coverage feedback from the server. Requests that trigger previously unseen coverage are added to the corpus, and the selection probability for each corpus entry is weighted by its historical contribution to coverage growth. In its original form, WebFuzz obtains coverage through AST-level instrumentation of the WUT. This instrumentation ties WebFuzz to PHP and requires the application’s source code to be available and rewritable. 

C. Integrating TraceLib with WebFuzz 

Agnostic web fuzzer is achieved by replacing WebFuzz’s AST-based coverage collection with TraceLib, while leaving the remainder of the fuzzer unchanged. This means that after issuing a request, WebFuzz retrieves the corresponding bitmap from /dev/shm under the request’s identifier and compares it with the global bitmap to determine whether the request brings new behaviors or not. When new behavior is detected, the subsequent steps remain identical to the original WebFuzz: updating the corpus and performing the next fuzzing iteration. VI. E VALUATION 

In this section, we evaluate TraceLib to determine whether its system-call feedback can practically replace code instru-mentation for guiding web fuzzing. Our evaluation is driven by the following research questions:  

> •

RQ1. How much application code does WebFuzz cover when corpus guidance comes from TraceLib rather than WebFuzz’s Native instrumentation or a black-box ap-proach?  

> •

RQ2. How accurately does the feedback provided by TraceLib agree with WebFuzz’s Native instrumentation and other code coverage tools?  

> •

RQ3. How much time overhead does TraceLib introduce?  

> •

RQ4. How portable is TraceLib across different web platforms? 

A. Evaluation Setup 

We prepare five feedback sources for this evaluation:  

> •

Native or Grey-box : WebFuzz’s original AST-level in-strumentation. This is the only configuration that requires access to the application’s source code. It is available for PHP-based WUTs, but not for non-PHP WUTs because WebFuzz does not support instrumentation of their source code.  

> •

TraceLib plain and TraceLib projected : our proposed approaches, described in Section IV-C4.  

> •

TraceLib nGram : the N-gram encoding comparator adapted from [27], described in Section IV-C5.  

> •

Black-box : a configuration that uses no feedback and retains every request for Corpus. 

1) WUT Selection: To evaluate TraceLib in realistic set-tings, we selected 16 popular web applications (see Table II) spanning six runtime environments (i.e., PHP, Go, Python, Ruby, Java, and Node.js). PHP-based WUTs dominate because the base fuzzer (i.e., WebFuzz) was originally designed for PHP and includes AST-level instrumentation, enabling a more detailed code coverage comparison. 

2) Code Coverage Oracle: As shown in Table II, for PHP-based WUTs, we use WebFuzz’s Edge counter as the coverage oracle because it records transitions between code blocks, rather than only the set of executed lines. Thus, the execution of a request is represented as a set of (predecessor , successor )

pairs, providing a more fine-grained representation of web application behavior. Because WebFuzz’s Edge counter is available only for PHP, PHP-based WUTs constitute the larger part of our evaluation and allow us to perform more comprehensive coverage comparisons. For non-PHP WUTs, which are not supported by WebFuzz’s Edge counter, we use the coverage tools provided for their respective runtimes: go cover for Go, coverage.py for Python, JaCoCo for Java, Ruby’s built-in coverage support for Ruby, and c8 for Node.js. These tools primarily represent coverage as a set of executed lines without preserving their execution order. Therefore, their coverage measurements have a different granularity from the edge-based measurements used for PHP and should not be interpreted as directly equivalent. 

3) Fuzzer Setup: All campaigns are driven by the same fuzzer (webFuzz), which runs in five feedback modes. Single-worker operation (achieved by putting -w 1 ) is used to ensure that only one HTTP request is submitted at a time, which complies with the requirement of TraceLib’s demultiplexer (see Section IV-D). 

4) Experiment Environment: All experiments were con-ducted on an Intel Core i7-6700 CPU @ 3.40 GHz (four cores and eight threads), with 32 GiB of RAM and two 238.5 GB SSDs. The operating system is Ubuntu 26.04 LTS (64-bit), running Docker Engine 29.5.3 and Docker Compose 5.1.4 for containerized deployments. Each WUT is deployed with its runtime (Table II). WebFuzz runs on the host in a Python 3.12.13 virtual environment. 

B. RQ1: Code Coverage 

In order to answer RQ1, we first prepare all of the PHP-based WUTs with WebFuzz’s code instrumentation to measure code coverage. Then, we launch the WebFuzz campaign and skip WebFuzz’s crawling phase to remove endpoint discovery as a confound and to give the same start for each mode. Skipping the crawl phase is important because our initial experiments showed that some WUTs (e.g., PrestaShop) spent the entire time budget in the WebFuzz crawl phase and never started fuzzing. Therefore, every feedback mode receives the same ten authenticated GET seeds, each validated with an HTTP 200 response, and has a 7,200-second wall-clock budget for the fuzzing campaign. This setting aligns with the binary fuzzing common practice, which also prepares several seeds for the fuzzing campaign. 9

TABLE II: Web Under Tests (WUTs) with their runtime environments, GitHub repository names, coverage counter tools used, GitHub popularity, and approximate codebase size.                                                                                                        

> #WUT Runtime GitHub Repo Name Coverage Counter GitHub Stars LoC 1WordPress PHP wordpress/wordpress WebFuzz Edge Counter ∼21.3k ∼1M 2HotCRP PHP kohler/hotcrp WebFuzz Edge Counter ∼435 ∼254.3k 3phpBB PHP phpbb/phpbb WebFuzz Edge Counter ∼2.1k ∼327.0k 4Joomla PHP joomla/joomla-cms WebFuzz Edge Counter ∼5.1k ∼334.2k 5Bagisto PHP bagisto/bagisto WebFuzz Edge Counter ∼28.1k ∼512.0k 6Drupal PHP drupal/drupal WebFuzz Edge Counter ∼4.3k ∼1.06M 7PrestaShop PHP PrestaShop/PrestaShop WebFuzz Edge Counter ∼9.2k ∼2.28M 8ZenCart PHP zencart/zencart WebFuzz Edge Counter ∼425 ∼202.4k 9Ghost Node.js TryGhost/Ghost c8 (V8 coverage) ∼55.3k ∼1.03M 10 Wiki.js Node.js requarks/wiki c8 (V8 coverage) ∼28.9k ∼58.0k 11 Redmine Ruby redmine/redmine Ruby Coverage ∼6.0k ∼219.0k 12 Huginn Ruby huginn/huginn Ruby Coverage ∼49.9k ∼51.4k 13 Roller Java apache/roller JaCoCo ∼133 ∼77.0k 14 PetClinic Java spring-projects/spring-petclinic JaCoCo ∼9.5k ∼12.8k 15 Superset Python apache/superset Coverage.py ∼74.7k ∼1.34M 16 Gogs Go gogs/gogs Go Cover ∼47.8k ∼140.2k

Fig. 5: Coverage of the five feedback modes over the two-hour campaign in PHP-based WUTs. Since fuzzing results are non-deterministic, each campaign is run three times. While the Native leads on WordPress, HotCRP, phpBB, and ZenCart, the TraceLib projected leads on the other four. 

1) Overall Coverage: As shown in Figure 5, our proposed TraceLib (i.e., TraceLib plain and TraceLib projected) and the Native achieve comparable coverage. Averaged over the eight PHP-based WUTs and the three campaigns (see Figure 6), the Native attains 11.15% while TraceLib projected attains 11.21% and TraceLib plain 11.10%. The difference between their averages is around 0.07 points, which is not significant, so they are tied. Per WUT, Native leads on four of the eight and TraceLib projected on the other four. These results show that our syscall-level feedback can match instrumentation-guided coverage while remaining portable, but the margin is within measurement noise, and the results do not establish that TraceLib dominates Native feedback. 

2) TraceLib nGram Comparison: TraceLib nGram is the representation adapted from the most recent work on system-call feedback for binary applications, and our measurements indicate that it does not transfer well to web workloads. It is the weakest of the three TraceLib modes in terms of coverage, and it is the only feedback source that performs worse than no feedback at all: on WordPress it reaches 19.60% against black-box’s 19.96%. The main reason is that its coverage representation is too sensitive for web activities. It records every system call the request performs and encodes the identity and the order of four or eight consecutive calls at a time, whereas TraceLib plain encodes a transition between two consecutive calls and TraceLib projected encodes a transition between two calls that carry a relevant argument. A window of TraceLib nGram therefore summarizes a longer stretch of the syscall stream, which mostly contains calls that are unrelated to the 10 

Fig. 6: Averaged over the eight PHP-based WUTs and the three pooled campaigns, the code coverages achieved by both TraceLib projectedand TraceLib plainare similar to those from Native. 

Fig. 7: TraceLib projected keeps the smallest corpus while TraceLib nGram behaves similarly to the black-box mode. application code. For example, a request in WordPress performs thousands of system calls, most of which reflect the state of the runtime or of the web environment rather than the request itself; 

newfstatat is a typical case. The number of these calls varies from one execution to the next even when the sub-mitted requests are identical. Such variations are sufficient to change the window-based representation and, consequently, the coverage bitmap indices it produces. As a result, identical requests can produce different bitmaps, causing almost every pair of submitted requests to appear distinct to this mode. This leads to a much bigger yet less effective corpus, with behavior similar to the black-box configuration, which retains every request (see Figure 7). 

C. RQ2: Per-Request Feedback Quality 

To evaluate TraceLib’s effectiveness in accurately deter-mining code coverage equivalence between web requests, we conducted a detailed comparative analysis against the coverage counters of all platforms (see the counter tools in Table II). 

1) Methodology: We collected a dataset of HTTP requests submitted by WebFuzz during the fuzzing phase. Each request entry includes the full URL, HTTP method, body parameters, the coverage results from TraceLib, and the coverage results from either WebFuzz’s native instrumentation (for PHP) or third-party coverage counter tools (for non-PHP). To keep the coverage information concise and easier to process, each coverage result is hashed. The underlying principle is that if two requests trigger the same execution path (i.e., identical code coverage), the coverage counters should produce the same hash. Conversely, distinct coverage should yield different hashes. We compared all pairwise combinations of submitted requests and evaluated whether both methods agree on cover-age equivalence. 

2) Positive Class Definition: In our experiment, we primar-ily focus on identifying unique execution behaviors triggered by web requests. In fact, in coverage-guided fuzzing research, the goal is to discover new coverage, so the “ positive event ” is often defined as discovering uniqueness. Therefore, we define a true positive as occurring when both TraceLib and the ground truth (i.e., WebFuzz’s AST coverage for PHP-based WUTs, or the platform-specific coverage tool for non-PHP WUTs) agree that two requests exercise different execution paths.  

> •

True Positive (TP): Both methods agree that two requests have different coverage.  

> •

True Negative (TN): Both methods (i.e., TraceLib and the ground truth) agree that two requests have the same coverage.  

> •

False Positive (FP): TraceLib reports different coverage while the ground truth reports the same coverage.  

> •

False Negative (FN): TraceLib reports the same coverage while the ground truth does not. 

3) Results: As shown in Table III, the evaluation revealed that our best proposed TraceLib (i.e., TraceLib projected) achieved strong consistency with the ground-truth coverage across the dataset. Overall, TraceLib projected reached over 94% True Positive Rates (TPR) with a quite low 11% False Positive Rate (FPR) in coverage equivalence to the ground-truth coverage. This level of agreement indicates that TraceLib, despite operating at a lower abstraction level than code in-strumentation, can capture behavior changes corresponding to meaningful execution differences. In other words, recording the transitions of system calls, executed files, and SQL queries enables language-agnostic deployment while preserving feed-back accuracy. 

4) Small Negative Class: Table III also reveals an imbal-ance in our dataset, with substantially more positive pairs than negative pairs. A pair is labeled negative only when the coverage counter reports the same line coverage for both requests. Because two randomly selected requests are unlikely to produce exactly the same runtime coverage, most pairs are therefore labeled positive. We do not rebalance the classes because this imbalance is a natural consequence of the fuzzing process. During fuzzing, newly generated requests are expected to explore new parts of the application and therefore produce new coverage. As a result, positive pairs naturally occur more frequently than negative pairs in our collected data. 11 

TABLE III: Pairwise classification results for TraceLib projected, addressing RQ2 (Section VI-C). We deliberately configured the non-PHP applications to issue fewer HTTP requests because their platform-specific code-coverage tools crash when repeatedly measuring large numbers of requests. 

WUT Requests Completed Request Pairs True Positive True Negative False Positive False Negative TPR (%) FPR (%) TNR (%) FNR (%) 

Zen Cart 1,000 499,500 475,909 6,575 5,766 11,250 97.69 46.72 53.28 2.31 HotCRP 1,000 499,500 482,918 2,220 15 14,347 97.11 0.67 99.33 2.89 Drupal 1,000 499,500 476,528 2,202 98 20,672 95.84 4.26 95.74 4.16 PrestaShop 1,000 499,500 449,880 23,346 800 25,474 94.64 3.31 96.69 5.36 phpBB 1,000 499,500 470,184 1,656 18 27,642 94.45 1.08 98.92 5.55 Joomla 810 327,645 287,265 14,492 174 25,714 91.78 1.19 98.81 8.22 Bagisto 1,000 499,500 453,079 1,598 486 44,337 91.09 23.32 76.68 8.91 WordPress 1,000 499,500 438,998 5,850 280 54,372 88.98 4.57 95.43 11.02 Roller 50 1,225 1,111 22 86 6 99.5 79.6 20.4 0.5 Gogs 50 1,225 1,181 7 27 10 99.2 79.4 20.6 0.8 WikiJS 50 1,225 752 453 0 20 97.4 0.0 100.0 2.6 Ghost 50 1,225 1,085 86 6 48 95.8 6.5 93.5 4.2 Superset 50 1,225 1,070 79 16 60 94.7 16.8 83.2 5.3 Huginn 50 1,225 1,111 30 0 84 93.0 0.0 100.0 7.0 PetClinic 50 1,225 990 87 7 141 87.5 7.4 92.6 12.5 Redmine 49 1,176 680 9 0 487 58.3 0.0 100.0 41.7 

Total / Overall 8,209 3,833,896 3,542,741 58,712 7,779 224,664 94.04 11.70 88.30 5.96    

> Note: Request Pairs is calculated only from submitted HTTP requests that have both feedback (i.e., from TraceLib and Native), referred to as requests completed in the table. Consequently, Joomla uses only 810 complete requests, and Redmine uses only 49 complete requests, since some requests failed to produce TraceLib feedback.

5) False Positives on non-PHP WUTs: Some non-PHP WUTs exhibit high FPRs, with Gogs and Roller having FPRs above 50%. Recall that a false positive occurs when TraceLib distinguishes two requests while the corresponding coverage tool reports the same coverage. Because this metric treats the coverage tool as the ground truth, TraceLib is penalized for detecting fine-grained behavioral differences that the coverage tool cannot observe. For PHP-based WUTs, WebFuzz’s Edge Counter operates at code branches and records executed control-flow transitions, providing a relatively fine-grained oracle. For non-PHP WUTs, their coverage tools primarily represent coverage as a set of executed lines and do not preserve their execution order, as explained in Section VI-A2. Consequently, two requests may execute the same set of lines even though those lines are executed in a different order or a different number of times. TraceLib can distinguish such requests through system-call transitions, whereas the non-PHP coverage tools report them as identical. Therefore, the high FPRs for non-PHP WUTs stem from the coarser coverage oracle, not from ineffective feedback in TraceLib. 

D. RQ3: Time Overhead 

To answer RQ3, we set up five modes to evaluate the time overhead introduced during fuzzing. The black-box fuzzer executes the WUTs without any instrumentation or tracing, serving as a baseline for the fastest possible execution. We first record 1,000 requests generated by the black-box mode, together with their request sequence, and use these requests as a fixed replay workload for all other modes. This ensures that each mode executes the same inputs and allows us to isolate the overhead introduced by feedback collection. All TraceLib modes run the WUTs without code instrumentation but enable real-time observation of all system-call activities. Native, by contrast, executes instrumented WUTs that incorporate source-code instrumentation. The result is shown in Figure 8, which shows that the cost of observing a WUT through its system calls is small and largely independent of the approach applied to the resulting trace. Across the 48 TraceLib campaigns (16 WUTs × 3 modes), the mean server-side response time increases by approximately 0.81 ms, or 4.5% of the corresponding black-box baseline. The overhead is concentrated in the most system-call-intensive PHP applications, where WordPress and PrestaShop incur up to 24.2 ms and 17.6 ms, respectively. These applications perform the largest amounts of file and database activity per request and therefore generate more system-call activity for the tracer to observe. A small number of campaigns report a mean response time below the black-box baseline. This does not imply that code instrumentation or syscall tracing makes the WUT itself faster. Instead, the measurements are affected by variability in the server’s runtime state and environment. This effect is partic-ularly visible in applications with more complex execution environments, such as Drupal, phpBB, and Zen Cart, where factors such as cache state and connection-pool warm-up can affect server processing time between runs. 

E. RQ4: Portability 

Answering RQ4, Figure 9 shows that our TraceLib feedback is practically useful across various runtimes, such as Node.js (Ghost and Wiki.js), Ruby (Redmine and Huginn), Java (Roller 12 

Fig. 8: Mean per-request HTTP response time for each feedback mode over 1,000 byte-identical replayed requests. In general, system-call tracing adds approximately 0.81 ms of latency compared with the black-box mode. and PetClinic), Go (Gogs), and Python (Superset). In terms of final code coverage, our TraceLib slightly exceeds black-box on Redmine, PetClinic, Huginn, Ghost, and Gogs, ties it on Roller and Superset, and falls marginally behind on Wiki.js. These results establish portability and useful cross-runtime guidance, even though it is not an absolute advantage. This evaluation also shows that the coverage difference between TraceLib and black-box is smaller for the non-PHP WUTs than for the PHP-based WUTs. This difference is partly caused by the coverage oracles used for the two groups. As discussed in Section VI-C5, the coverage results from non-PHP coverage tools are coarser than the results from WebFuzz’s Edge Counter in PHP. As a result, the non-PHP applications may appear to exhibit less behavioral variation, making the final coverage gap between TraceLib and black-box much smaller than in the PHP experiments. This should be interpreted partly as a limitation of the coverage reference. VII. L IMITATIONS 

Although TraceLib achieves results comparable to Native mode, several limitations remain and should be addressed in future work. 

A. Single Active Request 

A fundamental limitation is that TraceLib currently supports only one active HTTP request at a time, as explained in Section IV-D1. This restriction is necessary for correct attribution because TraceLib aggregates all syscall observations into a single bitmap for the one active request. When a second request arrives while one is in progress, it replaces or finalizes the first request’s record, and syscalls are then attributed to the wrong request. The cost of this design is that it prevents reliable multi-client throughput measurements and can miss concurrency-dependent bugs. A scalable design would require request- or connection-keyed contexts, separate bitmaps, and explicit handling for work that migrates across threads or continues asynchronously. 

B. Dependence on Application Externalization 

Our best approach, TraceLib projected, records only system calls that carry either a monitored file path or a recognized SQL statement. Although TraceLib plain records more system calls, this additional information does not necessarily provide better behavioral discrimination, because some application behavior is not exposed through system-call activity at all. For example, when a web application processes data that is already in memory, the computation may occur entirely in user space without crossing a system-call boundary. In such cases, neither TraceLib configuration can directly observe the corresponding behavior. In contrast, the Native mode uses AST-level instrumentation inserted at code branches, allowing it to observe the execution of those instrumented branches directly. Therefore, TraceLib’s effectiveness depends partly on the WUT’s characteristics, specifically how much of its control flow or state transitions are observable through system calls. This property varies substantially across our evaluated WUTs, which is reflected in the TPR of TraceLib projected. The TPR ranges from approximately 58% to 99% across applications, indicating that TraceLib’s ability depends on how much of the application’s behavior is exposed through observable system calls. In particular, Redmine has the lowest TPR because it uses SQLite, where SQL queries are processed within the application rather than exposed as SQL statements in the system-call trace. 13 

Fig. 9: The final coverage of non-PHP WUTs. Coverage-over-time graphs are omitted because the per-language coverage counters crash under per-minute polling, so each counter is queried once at the end of the campaign. 

C. Reduced Effectiveness on Encrypted Connections 

As explained before, TraceLib projected relies on observing SQL statements at the system-call boundary. Consequently, it cannot recover SQL text when the connection between the application and the database server is protected by Transport Layer Security (TLS), because the data crossing the network is encrypted before it reaches the system-call interface. In such cases, TraceLib projected cannot use SQL statements as feedback. Therefore, our proposed TraceLib is fully effective only when database information remains visible at the syscall boundary. This limitation is particularly relevant because some WUTs use recent MySQL releases and drivers that may negotiate TLS, which can substantially reduce the amount of SQL information visible to TraceLib. In practice, this limitation can be mitigated in a fuzzing environment because the fuzzing setup is typically controlled by the web application developer. The developer can disable TLS for the database connection used during fuzzing, allowing SQL statements to cross the system-call boundary in plain text and making them available to TraceLib projected. VIII. R ELATED WORK 

Coverage-guided fuzz testing has been extensively studied in the literature, traditionally focusing on binary applications. Compared to binary fuzzing, the application of grey-box fuzzing to web applications written in interpreted languages such as PHP and Python poses significantly more challenges related to instrumentation, state handling, and non-trivial input structures [11, 19, 24]. 

A. Intrusive Modifications 

WebFuzz is a grey-box fuzzer that detects Cross-Site Scripting (XSS) vulnerabilities, but it requires changing the target’s PHP source code by inserting specific PHP code at the Abstract Syntax Tree (AST) level for coverage collection [20]. Modifying application code requires significant effort for testers and risks introducing unintended side effects [19]. 

Witcher generalizes grey-box fuzzing across multiple lan-guages (e.g., PHP, Python, and Java), focusing on the detection of SQL and command injection vulnerabilities [24]. While it avoids changing the application source code, it requires modifying the language’s interpreter (typically 1–5 lines of changes) for coverage data acquisition [24]. Furthermore, Witcher uses intrusive techniques like binary-level hooking (e.g., hooking libc ’s recv function for the database process or replacing /bin/sh ) to escalate faults, requiring modifica-tions to components outside the application code [24]. More recent grey-box systems demonstrate effectiveness while operating transparently to the application source code and the web server, confining instrumentation primarily to the interpreter. Phuzz is a modular, coverage-guided fuzzer for PHP web applications designed to find a wide array of server-side and client-side vulnerabilities [19]. Phuzz requires no modification of the fuzzed application’s source code, web server (such as Apache), database, or other external com-ponents. Instrumentation for coverage collection (via exten-sions like Xdebug or PCOV) and vulnerability detection (via function hooking and error monitoring) is handled entirely at the PHP interpreter level [19]. Atropos , a snapshot-based, feedback-driven fuzzer for server-side PHP vulnerabilities, also localizes its advanced feedback mechanisms and bug oracles within the PHP interpreter to avoid application source modifications [11]. Atropos uses hooks to infer necessary application-specific keys (e.g., variable names) and expected values (e.g., specific string tokens) at runtime. 

B. Non-Intrusive Approaches 

Several recent approaches obtain fuzzing feedback without modifying the target application itself. First, SQLiFuzz uses external proxies to guide SQL injection fuzzing [7]. It uses a database proxy to associate HTTP requests with SQL queries and to provide feedback for SQL injection testing. However, its observation focuses on the database layer and is limited to behavior reflected in SQL queries and database responses. In contrast, TraceLib observes system-call activity at the operating-system boundary, allowing it to capture not only database-related activity but also other application interactions, such as file access and network operations. This broader observation scope enables TraceLib to provide general-purpose feedback for web fuzzing rather than feedback specific to SQL injection. Thus, both approaches avoid modifying the application and its runtime, but TraceLib operates at a broader system level and can capture a wider range of application behavior than a database-only observation mechanism. 14 

Next, Xiao et al. propose system call pattern (SPC) coverage as an alternative feedback mechanism for grey-box fuzzing [27]. Designed primarily for binary-only COTS applications, their approach uses hashed N -gram patterns of system calls and their parameters. This work is closely related to TraceLib because both use system-call behavior as fuzzing feedback. However, SPC was designed around whole-program binary execution, whereas TraceLib must associate system calls with individual HTTP requests in a long-running server and selectively retain argument information that is meaningful for web applications. Therefore, we include an N-gram configuration, TraceLib nGram , adapted from SPC 

as a comparator in both our system design and evaluation. 

C. Specialized Formats 

There are also fuzzers that focus on specific Web application formats or domains. BackREST [10] and RESTler [1] are model-based grey-box and black-box fuzzers, respectively, designed primarily for REST APIs, often requiring OpenAPI specifications. They are similar to Restest [18], RestTestGen 

[25], Nautilus [5], and Schemathesis [12] in the sense of focusing primarily on OpenAPI specifications. These tools differ from full application fuzzers such as ours, Phuzz and Atropos, which target the interpretation layer of complex, dynamically structured web pages. IX. C ONCLUSION 

This paper introduced a language-agnostic web fuzzing approach based on syscall-level tracing, addressing the limi-tations of traditional fuzzers that rely on language-specific in-strumentation. Through TraceLib, our approach captures low-level execution behavior and enables web fuzzers to leverage feedback from the internal execution of web applications across diverse web stacks, without requiring modifications to application code or runtime environments. Our evaluation across 8 popular PHP-based WUTs and 8 non-PHP WUTs shows that the proposed TraceLib projectedachieves code coverage and corpus growth comparable to the Native grey-box fuzzers, while substantially outperforming the black-box baseline on PHP-based WUTs. In some cases, it even surpasses language-instrumented fuzzing, demonstrating the potential of syscall-level feedback to expose more nuanced execution vari-ations. Moreover, the minimal setup effort required highlights the replicability and usability of our approach in real-world settings. Overall, our results suggest that syscall-level tracing is a promising foundation for scalable, portable, and effective web fuzzing. Future work includes addressing the non-concurrent request requirement and the dependence on application exter-nalization. ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 

The first author has received scholarship funding from the Center for Higher Education Funding and Assessment (PPAPT) and the Indonesia Endowment Fund for Education (LPDP) under the Indonesian Education Scholarship (BPI) schema. DATA AVAILABILITY 

To promote transparency and reproducibility, we follow the Open Science policies. 1) Artefacts : The implementation of TraceLib is available in our public repository 2. The repository also contains scripts for setting up the evaluation environment. 2) Reproduction package : A Docker-based package for web environments is included to facilitate an easier replication process. AI U SAGE 

During the preparation of this work, the authors used Anthropic Claude Code for code generation, debugging, refine-ment, and draft brainstorming. All final analysis, validations, and intellectual contributions were made by the authors. REFERENCES 

[1] Atlidakis, V., Godefroid, P., Polishchuk, M., 2019. RESTler: Stateful REST API Fuzzing, in: 2019 IEEE/ACM 41st International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE), IEEE, Montreal, Canada. pp. 748– 758. doi: 10.1109/ICSE.2019.00083 . iSSN: 1558-1225. [2] Bagherzadeh, M., Kahani, N., Bezemer, C.P., Has-san, A.E., Dingel, J., Cordy, J.R., 2018. Analyz-ing a decade of Linux system calls. Empirical Software Engineering 23, 1519–1551. URL: http:// link.springer.com/10.1007/s10664-017-9551-z, doi: 10. 1007/s10664-017-9551-z .[3] Barry, P., Crowley, P., 2012. Chapter 7 -Operating Systems Overview, in: Barry, P., Crowley, P. (Eds.), Modern Embedded Computing. Morgan Kaufmann, Boston, pp. 179–225. URL: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/ B9780123914903000072, doi: https://doi.org/ 10.1016/B978-0-12-391490-3.00007-2 .[4] Beaman, C., Redbourne, M., Mummery, J.D., Hakak, S., 2022. Fuzzing vulnerability discovery techniques: Survey, challenges and future directions. Computers & Security 120, 102813. URL: https://linkinghub. elsevier.com/retrieve/pii/S0167404822002073, doi: 10. 1016/j.cose.2022.102813 .[5] Deng, G., Zhang, Z., Li, Y., Liu, Y., Zhang, T., Liu, Y., Yu, G., Wang, D., 2023. NAUTILUS: Automated RESTful API Vulnerability Detection, in: Proceedings of the 32nd USENIX Security Sympo-sium, USENIX Association, Anaheim, CA, USA. pp. 5593–5609. URL: https://www.usenix.org/conference/ usenixsecurity23/presentation/deng-gelei. [6] Dharmaadi, I.P.A., Athanasopoulos, E., Turkmen, F., 2025. Fuzzing frameworks for server-side web applications: a survey. International Journal of Information Security 24, 73. URL: https://link.springer.com/10.1007/s10207-024-00979-w, doi: 10.1007/s10207-024-00979-w .

> 2https://github.com/websecfuzz/tracelib 15

[7] Dharmaadi, I.P.A., Pham, V.T., Mohsen, F., Turkmen, F., 2026. Sqlifuzz: Uncovering sql injection in any web applications. Proc. ACM Softw. Eng. 3. URL: https: //doi.org/10.1145/3808149, doi: 10.1145/3808149 .[8] eBPF community, . eBPF Documentation. https://ebpf. io/what-is-ebpf/. Accessed: 2026-08-28. [9] Fioraldi, A., Maier, D., Eißfeldt, H., Heuse, M., 2020. AFL++ : Combining incremental steps of fuzzing research, in: 14th USENIX Workshop on Of-fensive Technologies (WOOT 20), USENIX Associa-tion. URL: https://www.usenix.org/conference/woot20/ presentation/fioraldi. [10] Gauthier, F., Hassanshahi, B., Selwyn-Smith, B., Mai, T.N., Schl¨ uter, M., Williams, M., 2022. Experience: Model-Based, Feedback-Driven, Greybox Web Fuzzing with BackREST, in: Leibniz International Proceedings in Informatics (LIPIcs). URL: https://drops.dagstuhl. de/opus/volltexte/2022/16257, doi: 10.4230/LIPIcs. ECOOP.2022.29 .[11] G¨ uler, E., Schumilo, S., Schloegel, M., Bars, N., G¨ orz, P., Xu, X., Kaygusuz, C., Holz, T., 2024. Atropos: Effective Fuzzing of Web Applications for Server-Side Vulnerabilities, in: Proceedings of the 33rd USENIX Se-curity Symposium, USENIX Association, Philadelphia, PA, USA. pp. 4765–4782. URL: https://www.usenix.org/ conference/usenixsecurity24/presentation/gler. [12] Hatfield-Dodds, Z., Dygalo, D., 2022. Deriving semantics-aware fuzzers from web API schemas, in: Proceedings of the ACM/IEEE 44th International Con-ference on Software Engineering: Companion Pro-ceedings, ACM, Pittsburgh Pennsylvania. pp. 345–346. URL: https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3510454.3528637, doi: 10.1145/3510454.3528637 .[13] Li, J., Zhao, B., Zhang, C., 2018. Fuzzing: a survey. Cybersecurity 1, 6. URL: https://cybersecurity. springeropen.com/articles/10.1186/s42400-018-0002-y, doi: 10.1186/s42400-018-0002-y .[14] Liang, H., Pei, X., Jia, X., Shen, W., Zhang, J., 2018. Fuzzing: State of the Art. IEEE Transactions on Reliability 67, 1199–1218. doi: 10.1109/TR.2018. 2834476 . conference Name: IEEE Transactions on Re-liability. [15] Linux, 2025. ptrace(2) — Linux manual page. Linux Manual Pages. Accessed: 2025-11-21. [16] LLVM Project, 2025. libfuzzer – a library for coverage-guided fuzz testing. https://llvm.org/docs/LibFuzzer. html. Accessed: 2025-10-13. [17] Manes, V.J., Han, H., Han, C., Cha, S.K., Egele, M., Schwartz, E.J., Woo, M., 2021. The Art, Science, and Engineering of Fuzzing: A Survey. IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering 47, 2312–2331. URL: https:// ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8863940/, doi: 10.1109/ TSE.2019.2946563 .[18] Martin-Lopez, A., Segura, S., Ruiz-Cort´ es, A., 2021. RESTest: automated black-box testing of RESTful web APIs, in: Proceedings of the 30th ACM SIGSOFT Inter-national Symposium on Software Testing and Analysis, ACM, Virtual Denmark. pp. 682–685. URL: https://dl. acm.org/doi/10.1145/3460319.3469082, doi: 10.1145/ 3460319.3469082 .[19] Neef, S., Kleissner, L., Seifert, J.P., 2024. What All the PHUZZ Is About: A Coverage-guided Fuzzer for Finding Vulnerabilities in PHP Web Applications, in: Proceedings of the 19th ACM Asia Conference on Computer and Communications Security, ACM, Sin-gapore Singapore. pp. 1523–1538. URL: https://dl. acm.org/doi/10.1145/3634737.3661137, doi: 10.1145/ 3634737.3661137 .[20] van Rooij, O., Charalambous, M.A., Kaizer, D., Pa-paevripides, M., Athanasopoulos, E., 2021. web-Fuzz: Grey-Box Fuzzing for Web Applications, in: Bertino, E., Shulman, H., Waidner, M. (Eds.), Com-puter Security – ESORICS 2021, Springer Interna-tional Publishing, Cham. pp. 152–172. doi: 10.1007/ 978-3-030-88418-5_8 .[21] Roussev, V., Richard, G.G., Marziale, L., 2007. Multi-resolution similarity hashing. Digital Investigation 4, 105–113. URL: https://www.sciencedirect.com/ science/article/pii/S1742287607000473, doi: https:// doi.org/10.1016/j.diin.2007.06.011 .[22] strace, 2025. strace. https://github.com/strace/strace/tree/ master. Accessed: 2025-08-21;. [23] Tanenbaum, A.S., Bos, H., 2015. Modern operating systems. Pearson Education, Inc. [24] Trickel, E., Pagani, F., Zhu, C., Dresel, L., Vigna, G., Kruegel, C., Wang, R., Shoshitaishvili, Y., Doup´ e, A., 2023. Toss a Fault to Your Witcher: Applying Grey-box Coverage-Guided Mutational Fuzzing to Detect SQL and Command Injection Vulnerabilities, in: 2023 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP), IEEE Computer Society, SAN FRANCISCO. pp. 2658–2675. doi: 10.1109/SP46215.2023.00007 .[25] Viglianisi, E., Dallago, M., Ceccato, M., 2020. RESTTESTGEN: Automated Black-Box Testing of RESTful APIs, in: 2020 IEEE 13th International Con-ference on Software Testing, Validation and Verification (ICST), IEEE, Porto, Portugal. pp. 142–152. doi: 10. 1109/ICST46399.2020.00024 . iSSN: 2159-4848. [26] wordpress, 2025. Wordpress. Available at: https://wordpress.org/ (Accessed: 2025-05-02). [27] Xiao, J., Jiang, P., Zhao, Z., Huang, R., Liu, J., Li, D., 2025. Robust, efficient, and widely available greybox fuzzing for COTS binaries with system call pattern feed-back. USENIX Association, USA. URL: https://www. usenix.org/system/files/usenixsecurity25-xiao-jifan.pdf. [28] Yun, J., Rustamov, F., Kim, J., Shin, Y., 2023. Fuzzing of Embedded Systems: A Survey. ACM Computing Surveys 55, 1–33. URL: https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3538644, doi: 10.1145/3538644 .[29] Zalewski, M., 2015. American fuzzy lop. https://lcamtuf. coredump.cx/afl/. [30] Zhu, X., Wen, S., Camtepe, S., Xiang, Y., 2022. Fuzzing: A Survey for Roadmap. ACM Computing Surveys 54, 1–36. URL: https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3512345, doi: 10.1145/3512345 .