Title: UnsafeChecker: Finding Soundness Bugs in Rust Safe Abstractions

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2609.09641v1

Published Time: Thu, 10 Sep 2026 00:29:21 GMT

Number of Pages: 27

Markdown Content:
# UnsafeChecker: Finding Soundness Bugs in Rust Safe Abstractions 

XIZHE YIN ∗, Nanjing University, China 

YAOKUN ZHANG ∗, Nanjing University, China 

YANG FENG †, Nanjing University, China 

BAOWEN XU, Nanjing University, China Rust guarantees memory safety without garbage collection through a strict ownership and borrowing system. However, for low-level systems programming, many widely used libraries rely on the unsafe keyword. These libraries encapsulate raw-pointer operations behind safe APIs to form safe abstractions . A single mistake in this internal unsafe code can break its safety contract, rendering the abstraction unsound and allowing safe clients to trigger undefined behavior. Detecting these potential soundness violations is challenging. Existing static analysis tools for C/C++ ignore Rust-specific safety contracts, while current Rust tools lack the deep semantic modeling required to track the contexts that raw pointers erase. To address this gap, we present UnsafeChecker , a compiler-integrated static analysis framework for de-tecting potential soundness violations in Rust safe abstractions. UnsafeChecker analyzes Rust MIR using a flow-sensitive abstract interpretation that maintains a shared state with three components: ownership, ob-ject validity, and layout. Each warning rule consumes the subset of facts needed for the corresponding Rust safety obligation. UnsafeChecker reports both instruction-level undefined behavior and boundary-level con-tract violations that may escape through safe APIs. We evaluate UnsafeChecker on a benchmark of 46 Rust-Sec vulnerabilities, which contain 53 ground-truth bugs. UnsafeChecker outperforms several state-of-the-art tools, detecting 32 CVEs and covering 36 bugs (67.9% recall) with 51.6% alert-level precision. Furthermore, in a large-scale scan of real-world crates on crates.io , UnsafeChecker uncovered 114 previously unknown bugs across 83 crates, with 45 confirmed and 27 already fixed by maintainers. Additional Key Words and Phrases: Rust, Static Analysis, Memory Safety, Unsafe Code, Abstract Interpreta-tion 

1 Introduction 

Rust has become popular in systems programming, adopted by major projects such as Android and the Linux kernel [19, 21, 28]. A key reason for this popularity is that Rust guarantees memory safety without garbage collection. This makes it an ideal choice for building low-level systems that demand both high performance and strict safety. To achieve this, Rust relies on a strict ownership and borrowing system. For safe references, the compiler statically tracks their semantic context— specifically ownership relations, lifetimes, and type layouts —to enforce critical safety invariants .This ensures that every value has a unique owner, no reference outlives its data, and memory accesses are strictly bounded. As long as code remains within the safe subset of the language ( Safe Rust ), the compiler guarantees that these invariants hold, ensuring memory safety [24, 26]. However, the strict ownership model can be too restrictive for low-level tasks, such as direct hardware manipulation and high-performance data structures. To support this, Rust provides the 

unsafe keyword, which relaxes compiler checks and permits the use of raw pointers [24]. Raw pointers behave as plain addresses and do not carry the ownership, lifetime, or layout guarantees that Safe Rust relies on. As a result, the compiler cannot statically enforce these safety invariants  

> ∗Both authors contributed equally to this research.
> †Yang Feng is the corresponding author. Authors’ Contact Information: Xizhe Yin, xizheyin@smail.nju.edu.cn, Nanjing University, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China; Yaokun Zhang, yaokunzhang@smail.nju.edu.cn, Nanjing University, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China; Yang Feng, Nanjing University, Nan-jing, China, fengyang@nju.edu.cn; Baowen Xu, Nanjing University, Nanjing, China, bwxu@nju.edu.cn. arXiv:2609.09641v1 [cs.PL] 9 Sep 2026 2Xizhe Yin, Yaokun Zhang, Yang Feng, and Baowen Xu

for them. In practice, library developers encapsulate unsafe blocks behind safe APIs, forming safe abstractions . For example, the standard library implements types such as Vec and Mutex with un-safe code, but exposes safe interfaces. This design relies on a critical contract: the internal unsafe 

code must manually uphold the same safety invariants mandated by Safe Rust. If this contract is broken, the abstraction is unsound , allowing safe client code to trigger undefined behavior [3, 25]. Because the compiler does not validate these conditions inside unsafe blocks, a single implemen-tation error can compromise the safety of the entire library [28]. This gap motivates automated analyses for detecting potential soundness violations in safe abstractions. Existing approaches fall short because they prioritize execution errors over whether unsafe code upholds the contract relied on by safe APIs. Tools designed for C and C++ operate on a flat memory model. They check for invalid memory accesses (e.g., buffer overflows) but ignore Rust’s safety con-tracts. They also lack a language-level definition of the safety invariants that Safe Rust enforces. In Rust, these invariants are part of the soundness contract of safe abstractions [26]. For exam-ple, duplicating a raw pointer is valid in C. In Rust, however, if that pointer represents a unique resource (e.g., Box<T> ), duplicating it violates ownership uniqueness. Since C/C++ tools do not model ownership semantics, they cannot detect such contract violations. Similarly, existing Rust tools often rely on syntactic pattern matching or general memory safety checks. While effective for specific bug classes, they lack the deep semantic modeling required to check that an abstraction maintains its safety invariants. They do not track the semantic context—ownership, lifecycle, and layout—that the compiler erases in unsafe blocks. Consequently, they cannot reliably check that an unsafe implementation preserves the invariants required by its safe API. To detect potential soundness violations in safe abstractions, we design UnsafeChecker , a three-component static analysis framework for Rust. UnsafeChecker targets bugs where unsafe pointer operations violate the safety obligations that safe clients rely on. It analyzes Rust MIR by tracking three kinds of facts: ownership, object validity, and layout (Section 3). Specifically, the ownership component captures aliasing and resource uniqueness; the object-validity compo-nent tracks states such as live, moved, dropped, or uninitialized; and the layout component mod-els pointer bounds, alignment, mutability, and offsets. These facts are maintained in one shared flow-sensitive state. Some checks are domain-local, such as layout-centered bounds checks, while others combine facts across components through shared object and pointer identities. The anal-ysis is flow-sensitive. It propagates this composite state along the CFG until reaching a fixpoint. 

UnsafeChecker then checks instruction-level UB (e.g., out-of-bounds and invalid dereference) and boundary-level violations that can escape through safe APIs (e.g., returning a dangling pointer). The contributions of this paper can be summarized as follows: 

• Framework: We propose a MIR-level static analysis that maintains ownership, object-validity, and layout facts in a shared flow-sensitive state. This design supports both domain-local checks, such as spatial layout violations, and composite checks, such as dangling pointers and double frees that require ownership and validity facts. 

• Tool: We implemented UnsafeChecker as a compiler plugin. It analyzes Rust MIR efficiently and fits into existing build pipelines. 

• Study: We evaluated UnsafeChecker on a benchmark of 46 RustSec vulnerabilities (comprising 53 ground-truth bugs). The results show that UnsafeChecker detects 32 vulnerabilities (69.6% recall) and covers 36 bugs (67.9% recall), with an alert-level precision of 51.6%, outperforming several state-of-the-art tools [4, 7, 16]. Furthermore, when applied to a large-scale scan of real-world Rust crates, UnsafeChecker uncovered 114 previously unknown bugs across 83 crates. Among these, developers have confirmed 45 as genuine vulnerabilities, and 27 have already been fixed. UnsafeChecker: Finding Soundness Bugs in Rust Safe Abstractions 3

2 Background and Motivating Examples 

This section motivates our analysis goal and the semantic gaps introduced by unsafe . We first define soundness for safe abstractions and the safety invariants that Safe Rust enforces. We then walk through three real-world bugs from our evaluation to show how unsafe implementations violate these invariants. These examples motivate tracking three kinds of semantic context that raw pointers erase. 

2.1 Background: Soundness and Semantic Gaps 

In Rust, a safe abstraction is a public API that exposes a safe interface while internally using unsafe 

code. It acts as a contract: as long as the API is used from Safe Rust, the abstraction guarantees that no undefined behavior (UB) occurs. Because the compiler does not validate safety requirements inside unsafe , this contract depends on the developer upholding Rust’s safety invariants in the implementation. If the implementation violates these invariants, the abstraction becomes unsound 

and safe client code may trigger UB [24, 26]. A soundness violation means that a safe abstraction fails to uphold this safety contract. The Rust Reference defines soundness as follows [26]: 

“Unsafe code that satisfies this property for any safe client is called sound; if unsafe code can be misused by safe code to exhibit undefined behavior, it is unsound.” 

This means that there exists a safe usage of the API that can lead to undefined behavior (UB). Unsoundness can manifest in two ways. First, the unsafe implementation may directly execute an 

instruction-level UB (e.g., invalid dereference, out-of-bounds access, or use of uninitialized memory) under safe inputs. Second, the API may return or leak an invalid state to safe code (e.g., a dangling pointer or duplicated ownership), so that UB may occur later in the caller, even if the callee itself does not crash. We refer to the conditions that safe code relies on— such as aliasing, validity, and layout requirements—as safety invariants . Ensuring soundness requires checking whether unsafe code maintains these invariants, not just detecting crashes. Safe Rust establishes these safety invariants through three core mechanisms: (1) unique own-ership , which ensures resources have a single owner to prevent double-free; (2) borrowing rules ,which ensure references do not outlive the data they refer to, preventing dangling pointers; and (3) memory layout , which ensures pointers are aligned and within bounds. In this work, we cate-gorize the corresponding safety invariants into three dimensions: ownership , lifecycle , and layout .Within unsafe blocks, the compiler no longer enforces these rules, so an analysis must check them to reason about soundness. 

2.2 Motivating Examples 

We now illustrate how soundness violations manifest in real-world code, using bugs detected in our evaluation (Section 5). 

Listing 1 Soundness violation via ptr::read in remoteprocess                  

> 1pub trait ProcessMemory {
> 2fn copy_struct<T>(&self, addr: usize ) -> Result<T, Error> {
> 3let mut data = vec![0; std::mem::size_of::<T>()];
> 4self.read(addr, & mut data)?;
> 5Ok( unsafe { std::ptr::read(data.as_ptr() as *const T) })
> 6}
> 7}4Xizhe Yin, Yaokun Zhang, Yang Feng, and Baowen Xu

Example A. Listing 1 shows a soundness violation in the remoteprocess crate. The function 

copy_struct , provided by the ProcessMemory trait, is a safe abstraction that claims to safely read a struct T from a target process. It encapsulates low-level memory manipulation within an 

unsafe block. The function (1) allocates a local byte buffer ( data ); (2) fills it with raw bytes from the target; and (3) uses ptr::read to bitwise copy the buffer into a value of type T.This implementation is unsound for two reasons. First, it violates memory layout requirements, specifically pointer alignment. In Rust, Vec<u8> provides only 1-byte alignment for its buffer. If the generic type T requires stricter alignment (e.g., 8 bytes for u64 ), casting *const u8 to *const T yields a pointer that is not guaranteed to be properly aligned. Using ptr::read through such a pointer is undefined behavior. Second, it violates the unique ownership guarantee. Rust marks types safe for bitwise duplication as Copy (e.g., i32 ). Non-Copy types, however, often own heap allocations (e.g., String ). Bitwise copying such types duplicates their internal pointers, causing two values to own the same resource. Without a Copy bound on T, ptr::read creates a second owner. This results in a double-free error when both the returned object and the original resource go out of scope and attempt to deallocate the same memory.           

> use remoteprocess::{LocalProcess, ProcessMemory}; #[derive(Debug)]
> struct Victim (String);
> fn main() {
> let victim = Victim("Hello from heap".to_string());
> let _copy: Victim = LocalProcess.copy_struct(&victim as *const _as usize ).unwrap(); }

A single safe client can trigger both issues. The Proof-of-Concept (PoC) above calls copy_struct 

on a non-Copy type. It triggers UB in two ways. First, ptr::read::<Victim> reads from a Vec<u8> 

buffer that may not satisfy Victim ’s alignment. Second, since Victim is non-Copy and owns a 

String , the bitwise copy duplicates the owning pointer. Dropping the value causes a double free. This demonstrates that detecting unsoundness requires more than local crash checks; it necessi-tates tracking layout constraints and ownership relations .

Listing 2 Dangling pointer due to ptr::read in iterator                        

> 1impl <V> Iterator for Keys<V> {
> 2fn next(& mut self) -> Option< usize > {
> 3while self.pos < self.max {
> 4let opt = unsafe { ptr::read(self.head.add(self.pos)) };
> 5if opt.is_some() {
> 6self.pos += 1;
> 7return Some(self.pos - 1);
> 8}
> 9self.pos += 1;
> 10 }
> 11 None
> 12 }
> 13 }

Example B. Listing 2 shows a violation in the emap crate. The iterator’s next method returns a key from the map by using unsafe ptr::read to copy bytes from the internal buffer (line 4). As shown in the PoC below, after m.keys().next() returns, the map m still considers the slot occupied. Accessing it via m.get(0) triggers a use-after-free.       

> let mut m: Map <String> = Map::with_capacity_none(1); m.insert(0, String::from("hello"));
> let _ = m.keys().next(); // ptr::read copies bytes; dropping m[0] in next()
> let s = m.get(0).unwrap(); // returns dangling reference -- UAF! UnsafeChecker: Finding Soundness Bugs in Rust Safe Abstractions 5

As an implementation of the Iterator trait, this method acts as a safe abstraction. The problem is that ptr::read creates a bitwise copy of the value (e.g., String ) from the buffer into a temporary variable opt . Since the function returns Option<usize> and not the value itself, opt is dropped at the end of the scope. This drop frees the underlying heap memory (e.g., the string buffer). However, the map does not update its state to mark the slot as empty, so it retains a pointer to the now-freed memory. The compiler cannot enforce this logical state update through raw pointers inside unsafe .This violation leaves the map in an inconsistent state: subsequent access (e.g., via get ) triggers a use-after-free (UAF), and dropping the map causes a double free. The key observation is that ptr::read duplicates ownership into a temporary variable, which is 

dropped at the end of the scope . When this temporary variable is dropped, it invalidates the resource held by the map. By tracking the ownership relation and memory liveness state of opt , we can detect the dangling pointer. 

2.3 Key Insight: Tracking Lost Semantics to Check Safety Invariants 

To detect these soundness violations, we must track the semantic information erased by unsafe to check safety invariants. Our key insight is that soundness relies on maintaining invariants across three interconnected dimensions: ownership , lifecycle , and layout . Standard value-based dataflow analysis is insufficient as it treats pointers as simple values. While it propagates memory addresses, it fails to record ownership, liveness, or layout constraints. Consequently, it cannot explain why 

ptr::read in Listing 1 duplicates ownership, or why the map in Listing 2 returns a reference to freed memory. To address this, we track these semantics via a flow-sensitive abstract state. This state records aliasing, ownership relations, lifecycle states, and layout attributes. We propagate this state along the control flow graph (CFG), merging states at join points to conservatively over-approximate all execution paths. Crucially, these dimensions interact. For example, dropping an owner invalidates all aliases to the underlying resource. 

> Fig. 1. Ownership duplication in Listing 1. Solid ownership edges identify owners; alias edges connect non-owning pointer views to the underlying resource.

Figure 1 illustrates this using List-ing 1. The figure distinguishes owner nodes from non-owning alias views: 

data(o0) and ret(o3) are owning values, whereas the pointer-derived view o1 records an alias to the un-derlying buffer rather than owner-ship by itself. The event order is: first, 

data(o0) owns the heap buffer data.buf(o2) ; second, self.read links the raw pointer view o1 

to that buffer; third, ptr::read creates the returned owner ret(o3) from the same resource. The 

ptr::read operation therefore creates a second owning view of the heap resource. Let o0 denote the stack object data (Vec<u8> ), and o2 its heap buffer. o0 owns o2. The memory at addr is denoted as o1. self.read makes o2 an alias of o1. Then, ptr::read creates a new object o3 from o2. Our analysis tracks that o3 aliases o2, and by transitivity, o1. Thus, o1, o2, and o3 form an owning alias set . We report an alarm when this set contains two distinct Live non-Copy owners ( o1 and o3), which violates the unique ownership invariant. 

3 Approach 

In this section, we present UnsafeChecker , a flow-sensitive dataflow analysis for detecting poten-tial soundness violations in Rust safe abstractions. As discussed in §2, once code enters unsafe ,raw pointers may erase semantic context that Safe Rust relies on. UnsafeChecker tracks this con-text with three components: ownership, object validity, and layout. The components are stored in 6 Xizhe Yin, Yaokun Zhang, Yang Feng, and Baowen Xu   

> Fig. 2. Overview of UnsafeChecker’s workflow. UnsafeChecker compiles a crate to MIR, constructs a shared abstract state Σwith ownership, object-validity, and layout facts, and iteratively applies transfer functions to a fixpoint while checking instruction-level UB and boundary-level contract violations.

one shared abstract state, but individual transfer and warning rules update or consume only the facts relevant to the modeled MIR operation. 

3.1 Overview 

Figure 2 illustrates the overall workflow of UnsafeChecker . Given a Rust crate, UnsafeChecker 

first compiles it to MIR (Rust’s Mid-level Intermediate Representation) using the Rust compiler, rustc. It then abstracts MIR places into three kinds of locations: stack owners ( 𝒮𝒪 ), pointer loca-tions ( 𝒫 ), and Copy data ( 𝒱 𝑐𝑜𝑝𝑦 ). Based on this abstraction, UnsafeChecker runs a flow-sensitive dataflow analysis on each function’s CFG. The analysis iteratively applies transfer functions to propagate a shared abstract state Σ until reaching a fixpoint. Σ stores ownership, object-validity, and layout facts, which capture the semantic context that raw pointers may erase. During propa-gation, UnsafeChecker performs instruction-level execution checks to report undefined behavior (e.g., Use-After-Free and Out-of-Bounds). At function boundaries, it additionally checks API-level contract violations that can affect safe clients, such as returning dangling pointers or duplicating ownership. 

Scope of Analysis. Our goal is to detect potential unsoundness in Rust safe abstractions: whether a safe API can lead to undefined behavior when invoked from safe code. Accordingly, we focus on undefined behavior (UB) and contract violations that arise from unsafe pointer operations and that can compromise memory safety guarantees for safe clients. According to the Rust Reference [26], we target the following UB categories relevant to memory safety: [pointer-access] , [place-projection] , [alias] , [immutable] , and the pointer- and allocation-related parts of [invalid] .We also detect resource leaks, which are a critical error for many safe abstractions. The corre-sponding checks consume the subset of ownership, object-validity, and layout facts needed by each modeled Rust obligation. In addition, we implement three lightweight auxiliary checks used in our evaluation (Section 5). First, we flag integer overflow in index and size computations, since wrap-around can invalidate subsequent bounds reasoning. Second, we flag division-by-zero, since it triggers panics and can invalidate control-flow assumptions. Third, we flag invalid UTF-8 passed to unsafe string constructors (e.g., str::from_utf8_unchecked ), since it violates the documented safety precondition of these APIs and can invalidate subsequent reasoning about string operations. We exclude [race] , [intrinsic] , [target-feature] , [call] , [asm] , [runtime] , and other Ref-erence items that fall outside our scope. This is a scoped bug-finding claim rather than a theorem of full Rust semantic soundness. The claim is limited to the MIR operations, library/API models, and memory-safety categories covered by UnsafeChecker . It does not cover concurrency or data races, unavailable or opaque callees, unmodeled library behavior, inline-depth cutoffs, FFI behavior, or pointer-integer-pointer round trips where object identity or provenance is lost. UnsafeChecker: Finding Soundness Bugs in Rust Safe Abstractions 7

3.2 Variable Abstraction 

We model memory with abstract locations and abstract heap objects . An abstract location 

ℓ ∈ ℒ represents a MIR place. In Rust’s MIR, a place is a path to a memory location, such as a local variable x, a field projection x.f , or a dereference *p . To support precise field-sensitive analysis, we treat field projections (e.g., x.f ) as distinct abstract locations from their parents ( x). This allows us to track partial ownership and independent borrows of disjoint fields. However, we do not track dereferences *p as base locations; instead, they are resolved to the abstract objects pointed to by 

p using the points-to relation. We partition ℒ into three disjoint subsets: stack owners ( 𝒮𝒪 ), pointer locations ( 𝒫 ), and Copy 

data locations ( 𝒱 𝑐𝑜𝑝𝑦 ). We also track a set of abstract heap objects ℋ𝒪 that represent dynamic allocations. 

• 𝒮𝒪 ⊆ ℒ: stack owners . Locations of non-Copy types (e.g., Vec , Box ) that act as roots of ownership. They reside on the stack and may manage heap resources. 

• 𝒫 ⊆ ℒ: pointer locations . Locations holding references or raw pointers (e.g., *mut T , &T ). They access objects indirectly without owning them. We include raw pointers in 𝒫 (even though they are Copy ) to track aliasing precisely. 

• 𝒱 𝑐𝑜𝑝𝑦 ⊆ ℒ: Copy data locations . Other Copy locals (e.g., usize , bool ). The layout domain uses these values for arithmetic reasoning. For heap allocations, we use an allocation-site abstraction . All allocations from the same MIR instruction map to one canonical heap object ℎ𝑙𝑜𝑐 ∈ ℋ𝒪 . Note that ℋ𝒪 ∩ ℒ = ∅ . We unify all resources whose lifecycle must be tracked by defining ownership nodes as 𝒪 = 𝒮𝒪 ∪ ℋ𝒪 . This set includes both stack owners and heap objects. For a composite ownership root 𝑣 ∈ 𝒮𝒪 that encapsulates an internal pointer used for memory access (e.g., a Vec ’s buffer pointer), we denote the corresponding pointer location (an access path in ℒ) by 𝑝 𝑣 ∈ 𝒫 .To illustrate, consider the Vec<T> variable data in Listing 1. The variable data resides on the stack ( data ∈ 𝒮𝒪 ) and manages a dynamically allocated buffer ( data.buf ∈ ℋ𝒪 ). In Safe Rust, the ownership model ensures that when data goes out of scope, it automatically deallocates 

data.buf . Unsafe Rust, however, allows pointers ( 𝒫 ) to bypass these checks, potentially intro-ducing aliasing, invalid lifecycle states, or out-of-bounds access. Based on the variable abstraction above, UnsafeChecker tracks these risks through three components, as detailed next. 

3.3 Ownership Domain ( 𝜎 𝐴 )

To detect memory safety violations in unsafe code, UnsafeChecker tracks the ownership topol-ogy that is typically erased during compilation. The ownership domain 𝒟 𝑂𝑤𝑛 approximates the relational structure of the heap by tracking three key relations: ⟨Pt , Own , Alias ⟩.

• Points-to Relation ( Pt ∶ 𝒫 ⇀ ℘( 𝒪 )). A standard may-points-to map that links each pointer location 𝑝 to the set of objects it may reference. This relation resolves indirect accesses: derefer-encing 𝑝 is treated as an access to all 𝑜 ∈ Pt (𝑝) . At control-flow joins, points-to sets are merged by union, so Pt (𝑝) accumulates possible targets from all incoming paths. 

• Ownership Hierarchy ( Own ∶ 𝒪 → ℘( ℋ𝒪 )). Tracks the vertical management of resources. For an object 𝑜 , Own (𝑜) is the set of heap resources for which 𝑜 is currently responsible. This explicitly represents the RAII structure (e.g., a Vec owning its buffer), allowing the analysis to determine which resources are affected when an object is dropped. 

• Ownership Aliasing ( Alias ∶ 𝒪 → ℘( 𝒪 )). Tracks the horizontal aliasing between owners. 

Alias (𝑜) is the set of objects that claim ownership of the same underlying resource as 𝑜 . While Safe Rust enforces unique ownership ( |Alias (𝑜)| = 1 ), unsafe code can introduce duplication (e.g., 8 Xizhe Yin, Yaokun Zhang, Yang Feng, and Baowen Xu 

via ptr::read ). We track these sets to detect when multiple objects believe they own the same resource, which is the structural precursor to double-free bugs. The domain forms a lattice ordered by component-wise subset inclusion ( ⊑). The join operation (⊔) computes the component-wise set union, yielding a conservative may-approximation for the modeled ownership facts. For the aliasing component, the union accumulates ownership claims from all incoming control-flow paths: Alias ⊔(𝑜) = Alias 1(𝑜) ∪ Alias 2(𝑜) . This ensures that if an ownership duplication exists on any path, it is preserved and checked in the subsequent analysis. 

3.4 Object-Validity (Lifecycle) Domain 

The second dimension of our analysis is the object-validity domain 𝒟 𝐿𝑖𝑓 𝑒 , which tracks the runtime validity of memory objects. While Safe Rust relies on static lifetimes to prevent use-after-free, unsafe code bypasses these checks, necessitating a flow-sensitive model of object states. We retain the term lifecycle only to denote these runtime object states (e.g., Live , Moved , and Dropped ), distinct from Rust’s compile-time lifetime system. We define the lifecycle state 𝜎 𝑂 ∶ 𝒪 → ℘(Σ 𝑎𝑡𝑜𝑚 )

as a mapping from each object to a set of possible atomic states. Elements of 𝒟 𝐿𝑖𝑓 𝑒 are such maps. We model the lifecycle of a Rust object using a finite set of mutually exclusive atomic states Σ𝑎𝑡𝑜𝑚 .The base state is Live , representing a fully initialized and valid object. Memory that is allocated but not yet initialized is tracked as Uninit ; reading from it is undefined behavior. When owner-ship is transferred, the object enters the Moved state, and subsequent access is a Use-After-Move error. Once a destructor runs, the object becomes Dropped , and the pointer to it is no longer valid, leading to a dangling pointer. Any access to this pointer constitutes a Use-After-Free error. Special handling is required for manual management: ManuallyDropped indicates an object (e.g., wrapped in ManuallyDrop ) that remains valid but whose automatic destructor is suppressed. Finally, For-gotten represents an object explicitly consumed (e.g., via mem::forget ); it is semantically moved, and its resources are leaked rather than freed. To handle control-flow uncertainty (e.g., a variable is dropped in one branch but not another), we construct the domain as a power set lattice 𝒮 = ℘(Σ 𝑎𝑡𝑜𝑚 ). In this lattice, an abstract state 𝑆 ∈ 𝒮 

represents the disjunction of all possible runtime states, ordered by set inclusion ( ⊆). At control-flow merge points, the join operation ( ⊔) is defined as set union ( ∪), which yields a conservative may-approximation for the modeled object-validity facts. For example, if a variable is initialized on one path and moved on another, its state at the merge point is exactly {Live , Moved }. This power-set design is necessary for precise error reporting. Rather than collapsing to a generic “Unknown” state, UnsafeChecker retains the specific set of possible states. This supports conditional reports (e.g., “Potential Use-After-Free on some paths”). 

3.5 Layout Domain 

The third component of our analysis is the layout domain 𝒟 𝐿𝑎𝑦 , which models the physical prop-erties of pointers relative to their underlying memory allocations. The layout domain complements the qualitative reasoning of ownership domain and lifecycle domain by maintaining byte-level pre-cision for pointer bounds, alignment, and mutability. This enables checks for array indexing and pointer arithmetic. For a pointer 𝑝 , the layout domain tracks its abstract state 𝜎 𝐿 (𝑝) as a tuple: 

𝜎 𝐿 (𝑝) = ( base , size , offset , align , null , mut )

Formally, 𝜎 𝐿 is a map from pointer locations to such tuples. Here, base denotes the target memory block (heap, stack, or ⊤), while size represents the minimum guaranteed buffer capacity. The offset 

interval [𝑙, 𝑢] tracks the pointer’s position relative to the base, and align records the alignment guarantee. Finally, null and mut capture the pointer’s nullability and mutability. UnsafeChecker: Finding Soundness Bugs in Rust Safe Abstractions 9

We use an explicit invalid-pointer element as the bottom state of the layout domain: 

⊥Lay = (⊥, 0, ⊥, 1, MaybeNull , Unknown )

We define the partial order ⊑Lay so that larger elements represent weaker safety guarantees. Specifically, a state 𝑠 2 is considered less precise than 𝑠 1 (𝑠 1 ⊑Lay 𝑠 2) if it provides a smaller guaran-teed buffer size ( 𝑧 1 ≥ 𝑧 2), a smaller alignment ( 𝑎 1 ≥ 𝑎 2), or a wider offset interval ( [𝑙 1, 𝑢 1] ⊆ [𝑙 2, 𝑢 2]). For the discrete attributes, we enforce NonNull ⊑ MaybeNull and Mut ⊑ Immut . Intuitively, 𝜎 𝐿 

stores conservative spatial facts. It uses lower bounds for guarantees (e.g., size and align ), and an over-approximating interval for possible offsets. Therefore, the join operation ( ⊔Lay ) keeps only guarantees that hold on all incoming paths, while merging the set of possible offsets. It also down-grades capabilities (e.g., to Immut or MaybeNull ) unless they are guaranteed everywhere. At control-flow merge points, the join operation ⊔Lay computes the safe lower bound of guar-antees. For example, it takes the minimum capacity ( size ⊔ = min (𝑧 1, 𝑧 2)) and the union of offset intervals. If the target bases differ ( 𝑏 1 ≠ 𝑏 2), we set 𝑏 ⊔ = ⊤ but keep the common lower-bound constraints. This decouples spatial safety from temporal safety: even if the exact object identity is uncertain, UnsafeChecker can still prove that an access stays within the shared physical bounds. Finally, to support low-level pointer arithmetic and casting (e.g., reinterpreting *mut u64 as *mut u8 ), we track all offsets and sizes in bytes. The size field reflects the total allocated capacity rather than the initialized length. Although accessing uninitialized bytes within the allocated bounds is 

spatially safe (i.e., no buffer overflow), it constitutes Undefined Behavior. This violation is detected independently by the lifecycle domain, which tracks the Uninit state. 

3.6 Abstract Semantics and Dataflow Propagation 

We formalize the static analysis as a flow-sensitive abstract interpretation over the Rust MIR. The analysis propagates the composite abstract state Σ = (𝜎 𝐴 , 𝜎 𝑂 , 𝜎 𝐿 ) through the control flow graph (CFG). This section defines the lattice structure, the symbolic initial state for procedure summaries, and the transfer functions governing state transitions. The global abstract domain is the product of the three sub-domains defined above: 𝒟 = 𝒟 𝑂𝑤𝑛 ×

𝒟 𝐿𝑖𝑓 𝑒 × 𝒟 𝐿𝑎𝑦 . The composite partial order ⊑ and join operator ⊔ are defined component-wise, applying the respective domain-specific operations described in §3.3–3.5. This lets the analysis compute a conservative may-approximation of the modeled program facts across all components simultaneously. 

3.6.1 Symbolic Initial State. To support the analysis of libraries, we construct a generic symbolic precondition Σinit at the entry points (public APIs). For internal functions, the initial state is directly propagated from their call sites via full inlining. For an entry point function 𝐹 , we construct a symbolic initial state Σinit that reflects Rust’s ABI guarantees: 

Ownership. We assume mutable references do not alias, and owned objects form disjoint trees. Each ownership node 𝑜 starts in a singleton alias set ( Alias (𝑜) ← {𝑜} ). Each pointer argument 

𝑝 ∈ 𝐴𝑟𝑔𝑠 𝐹 points to a fresh symbolic object ( Pt (𝑝) = {𝑜 𝑝 }). Local pointers start empty ( Pt (𝑝) = ∅ ). For composite arguments 𝑣 (e.g., Vec ), we create a fresh heap object ℎ𝑣 and set Own (𝑣) = {ℎ 𝑣 }.

Lifecycle. We assume caller-provided values are valid. Input arguments start as Live . Local vari-ables start as Uninit to capture use-before-def patterns in unsafe code. 

Layout. Pointers derived from arguments start with symbolic constraints. For a container argu-ment 𝑣 , its internal pointer 𝑝 𝑣 has a symbolic capacity 𝜅 𝑣 and the alignment of 𝑇 :

𝜎 𝐿 (𝑝 𝑣 ) = (ℎ 𝑣 , 𝜅 𝑣 ⋅ size_of (𝑇 ), [0, 0], align_of (𝑇 ), NonNull , mut_of (𝑣)) 10 Xizhe Yin, Yaokun Zhang, Yang Feng, and Baowen Xu 

We also set Pt (𝑝 𝑣 ) = {ℎ 𝑣 }. This representation lets UnsafeChecker check constraints such as 𝑖 < 𝜅 𝑣 

without concrete values. 

3.6.2 Auxiliary Operations. To simplify the operational semantics, we define auxiliary functions that update the ownership topology and lifecycle states. They capture common patterns such as resource destruction and overwriting. 

Topology Updates (Transfer, Alias Merge, and Isolate). These operations maintain the integrity of the ownership graph during variable assignments. 

• Transfer (TRansfeR (𝑦, 𝑥, 𝜎 𝐴 )): Models the standard ownership transfer (move semantics). When a value is moved from 𝑥 to 𝑦 , this operation updates the topology by structurally replac-ing 𝑥 with 𝑦 in all aliasing sets and transferring the heap ownership mapping from 𝑥 to 𝑦 . This ensures that the new owner 𝑦 inherits the exact relationships of the original owner 𝑥 .

• Alias Merge (AliasMeRge (𝑦, 𝑥, 𝜎 𝐴 )): Handles the creation of ownership aliases, such as when using ptr::read to duplicate a non-Copy value. This operation merges the equivalence classes of 𝑥 and 𝑦 into a single clique and merges heap ownership information by Own (𝑦) ← Own (𝑦) ∪ 

Own (𝑥) . This reflects the physical reality that both variables now claim ownership of the same 

underlying resource, allowing the analysis to track potential double-free violations if both are dropped. 

• Isolate (Isolate (𝑥, 𝜎 𝐴 )): Disconnects a variable 𝑥 from the ownership topology. Before 𝑥 is overwritten or invalidated, this operation removes it from all alias sets of its neighbors and resets its own alias set to a singleton. This preserves the symmetry of the aliasing relation and ensures that the old identity of 𝑥 does not affect the new value. It also clears 𝑥 ’s heap ownership mapping ( Own (𝑥) ← ∅ ). 

Resource Management (Drop and Clear). These operations handle the destruction and overwrit-ing of resources to prevent leaks and invalid access. 

• Recursive Drop (RecuRsiveDRop (𝑢, Σ) ): Models the cascading execution of destructors. It propagates the Dropped state not just to 𝑢 , but to all its ownership aliases. RecuRsiveDRop (𝑢, Σ) = fold (Σ ′, 𝜎 𝐴 .Own (𝑢), 𝜆(𝜎, ℎ). RecuRsiveDRop (ℎ, 𝜎)) 

where Σ′ marks all aliases of 𝑢 as Dropped . This propagation is essential for detecting temporal violations: if one owner drops the resource, all other aliases must immediately reflect this invalid state to detect subsequent use-after-free errors. 

• Clear (CleaR (𝑥, Σ) ): Prepares a variable 𝑥 for overwriting after MIR drop effects have been handled explicitly by T-Drop . If 𝑥 ∈ 𝒪 , it freshens the abstract identity of 𝑥 by calling Isolate to disconnect it from the previous ownership topology. If 𝑥 ∈ 𝒫 , it resets pointer-specific state by setting Pt (𝑥) ← ∅ and 𝜎 𝐿 (𝑥) ← ⊥ Lay . If 𝑥 ∈ 𝒱 𝑐𝑜𝑝𝑦 , it performs no state mutation. It does not introduce an additional destructor beyond the drops already present in MIR. 

State Transitions (Consume and Forget). We employ lightweight helpers to model affine type semantics: 

• Consume (Consume (𝑥, 𝜎 𝑂 )): Transitions a variable 𝑥 and all its non-Copy sub-locations (fields) to the Moved state. This invalidates 𝑥 and any derived field pointers, preventing Use-After-Move errors. 

• Forget (FoRget (𝑥, Σ) ): Transitions 𝑥 to the Forgotten state (modeling mem::forget ). Cru-cially, this operation propagates the Forgotten state to all fields of 𝑥 , ensuring that pointers to sub-fields (e.g., &x.f ) are invalidated even if taken before the call. UnsafeChecker: Finding Soundness Bugs in Rust Safe Abstractions 11 

3.6.3 Transfer Functions (Operational Semantics). We formalize the transfer functions as inference rules of the form Instruction , Preconditions  

> Σ→Σ ′

. These rules are summarized in Figure 3. For presentation, we write a small instruction language that abstracts common MIR patterns, including allocation (x = Alloc(T) ), address-taking and casts ( p = AddrOf(k, x) and p = Cast(k, q) ), and pointer arithmetic ( p = q.offset(i) ). Type parameters, size_of , align_of , field offsets, mutability, and ABI layout facts are obtained from rustc MIR type and layout queries. We write Σ = (𝜎 𝐴 , 𝜎 𝑂 , 𝜎 𝐿 ).When a rule invokes an auxiliary operation and obtains an intermediate state Σ1 (e.g., CleaR or Isolate), we write Σ1 = (𝜎 𝐴1 , 𝜎 𝑂1 , 𝜎 𝐿1 ) and apply subsequent updates to these components. We write StRongTaRget (𝑂 𝑑𝑠𝑡 ) when 𝑂 𝑑𝑠𝑡 = {𝑜} and 𝑜 denotes a singleton abstract object in the current context. Allocation-site summaries and merged objects are not strong targets and therefore use weak updates. 

Rule intuition. T-Alloc creates a fresh heap object and initializes all three domains: it sets life-cycle to Live , records ownership edges, and initializes points-to and layout facts. The fresh pointer starts with Mut capability because a newly allocated owned object is uniquely mutable at alloca-tion time; later borrows and casts can downgrade or propagate this capability. T-Move transfers the ownership topology and marks the source as Moved . T-ReadBits models ptr::read : it cre-ates a new owner and merges alias sets to represent ownership duplication. T-DRop, T-FoRget, and T-ManDRop update lifecycle and trigger the corresponding topology updates. T-ManDRop moves the binding 𝑥 into the wrapper 𝑦 : the source binding 𝑥 becomes moved, but 𝑦 denotes valid storage with suppressed automatic destruction. Therefore, ManuallyDropped is not included in In-validSet ; access through the wrapper is not reported as use-after-move. T-Load reads Copy data and does not change ownership or lifecycle. Non-Copy value movement is handled by T-Move or by ownership-producing API rules such as T-ReadBits, rather than by T-Load. T-StoRe-S and T-StoRe-W write through pointers, using strong updates only when the destination denotes a single-ton target and weak updates for merged targets or allocation-site summaries. T-PtRWRite models 

ptr::write , which overwrites memory without dropping the old value. T-AddROf, T-Cast, and T-UsePtR handle address-taking, casts, and pointer propagation separately. address-taking creates target and layout facts from a place, casts preserve points-to and layout facts except for mutabil-ity changes, and pointer propagation copies the existing facts unchanged. T-Offset propagates bounds and alignment through pointer arithmetic; the gcd term gives a conservative lower bound on the resulting pointer alignment after advancing by multiples of sizeof (𝑇 ) .

3.6.4 Termination and Fixed-Point Iteration. The solver uses a standard worklist algorithm over the CFG. It iterates until all program points reach a post-fixpoint. Termination follows from the height of the abstract domains: 

• Finite domains ( 𝜎 𝐴 , 𝜎 𝑂 ). The ownership and lifecycle domains range over finite sets. ℒ

is finite for a function body, and ℋ𝒪 is finite due to the allocation-site abstraction. The transfer functions are monotone w.r.t. ⊑, so ascending chains stabilize. 

• Layout domain ( 𝜎 𝐿 ). The interval component has infinite height. We apply widening at loop headers when the interval grows, and optionally apply narrowing based on simple loop guards (e.g., i < len ) to recover precision. This combination guarantees termination and keeps the layout analysis practical. 

3.6.5 Inter-Procedural Analysis via Full Inlining. Given that unsafe code regions in Rust typically involve shallow call chains and static dispatch (e.g., calls to Vec::set_len or intrinsic functions), we adopt a full inlining approach for inter-procedural analysis. This strategy offers full context sensitivity by performing a recursive, depth-first traversal of the call graph. 12 Xizhe Yin, Yaokun Zhang, Yang Feng, and Baowen Xu 

T-Alloc 

x = Alloc(T) ℎ = fresh_heap (𝑥) 𝑝 𝑥 ∈ 𝒫 

Σ1 = CleaR (𝑥, Σ) 𝜎 ′𝑂 = 𝜎 𝑂1 [𝑥 ↦ { Live }, ℎ ↦ { Live }] 𝜎 ′𝐴 = 𝜎 𝐴1 [Own (𝑥) ↦ {ℎ}] 𝜎 ′𝐴 .Pt (𝑝 𝑥 ) = {ℎ} 𝜎 ′𝐿 = 𝜎 𝐿1 [𝑝 𝑥 ↦ (ℎ, size (𝑇 ), [0, 0], align (𝑇 ), NonNull , Mut )] 

T-Move y = x !𝐶𝑜𝑝𝑦(𝑥) Σ1 = CleaR (𝑦, Σ) 𝜎 ′𝐴 = TRansfeR (𝑦, 𝑥, 𝜎 𝐴1 )𝜎 ′𝑂 = Consume (𝑥, 𝜎 𝑂1 )[𝑦 ↦ { Live }] 

T-ReadBits 

y = ptr::read(p) 𝑦 ∈ 𝒪 

Σ1 = CleaR (𝑦, Σ) 𝑂 𝑠𝑟𝑐 = 𝜎 𝐴1 .Pt (𝑝) 𝜎 ′𝑂 = 𝜎 𝑂1 [𝑦 ↦ { Live }] 𝜎 ′𝐴 = fold (𝜎 𝐴1 , 𝑂 𝑠𝑟𝑐 , 𝜆(𝜎, 𝑜). AliasMeRge (𝑦, 𝑜, 𝜎)) 

T-ManDrop y = ManuallyDrop(x) 

Σ1 = CleaR (𝑦, Σ) 𝜎 ′𝐴 = TRansfeR (𝑦, 𝑥, 𝜎 𝐴1 )𝜎 ′𝑂 = Consume (𝑥, 𝜎 𝑂1 )[𝑦 ↦ { ManuallyDropped }] 

T-Load 

y = *p 𝑦 ∈ 𝒱 𝑐𝑜𝑝𝑦 

Σ′ = CleaR (𝑦, Σ) 

T-Store-S 

*p = x 𝑂 𝑑𝑠𝑡 = 𝜎 𝐴 .Pt (𝑝) 𝑥 ∈ 𝒪 𝑂 𝑑𝑠𝑡 = {𝑜} StRongTaRget (𝑂 𝑑𝑠𝑡 )Σ1 = CleaR (𝑜, Σ) 𝜎 ′𝐴 = TRansfeR (𝑜, 𝑥, 𝜎 𝐴1 )𝜎 ′𝑂 = Consume (𝑥, 𝜎 𝑂1 )[𝑜 ↦ { Live }] 

T-Store-W 

*p = x 𝑂 𝑑𝑠𝑡 = 𝜎 𝐴 .Pt (𝑝) 𝑥 ∈ 𝒪 ¬StRongTaRget (𝑂 𝑑𝑠𝑡 )𝜎 ′𝐴 = fold (𝜎 𝐴 , 𝑂 𝑑𝑠𝑡 , 𝜆(𝜎, 𝑜). AliasMeRge (𝑜, 𝑥, 𝜎)) 𝜎 ′𝑂 = Consume (𝑥, 𝜎 𝑂 )[∀𝑜 ∈ 𝑂 𝑑𝑠𝑡 ∶ 𝑜 ↦ 𝜎 𝑂 (𝑜) ∪ { Live }] 

T-Drop drop(x) 

Σ′ = RecuRsiveDRop (𝑥, Σ) 

T-Forget 

mem::forget(x) 

Σ′ = FoRget (𝑥, Σ) 

T-PtrWrite 

ptr::write(p, x) 𝑂 𝑑𝑠𝑡 = 𝜎 𝐴 .Pt (𝑝) 𝑂 𝑑𝑠𝑡 = {𝑜} Σ1 = Isolate (𝑜, Σ) 𝜎 ′𝐴 = TRansfeR (𝑜, 𝑥, 𝜎 𝐴1 )𝜎 ′𝑂 = Consume (𝑥, 𝜎 𝑂1 )[𝑜 ↦ { Live }] 

T-AddrOf p = AddrOf(k, x) 

Σ1 = CleaR (𝑝, Σ) 𝜎 ′𝐴 = 𝜎 𝐴1 [Pt (𝑝) ↦ {𝑥}] 𝜎 ′𝐿 = 𝜎 𝐿1 [𝑝 ↦ (𝑥, size (𝑥), [0, 0], align (𝑥), NonNull , mut (𝑘))] 

T-Cast 

p = Cast(k, q) 𝜎 𝐿 (𝑞) = (𝑏 𝑞 , 𝑠 𝑞 , 𝑜 𝑞 , 𝑎 𝑞 , 𝑛 𝑞 , 𝑚 𝑞 )Σ1 = CleaR (𝑝, Σ) 𝜎 ′𝐴 = 𝜎 𝐴1 [Pt (𝑝) ↦ 𝜎 𝐴1 .Pt (𝑞)] 𝜎 ′𝐿 = 𝜎 𝐿1 [𝑝 ↦ (𝑏 𝑞 , 𝑠 𝑞 , 𝑜 𝑞 , 𝑎 𝑞 , 𝑛 𝑞 , mut (𝑘))] 

T-UsePtr p = Use(q) 

Σ1 = CleaR (𝑝, Σ) 𝜎 ′𝐴 = 𝜎 𝐴1 [Pt (𝑝) ↦ 𝜎 𝐴1 .Pt (𝑞)] 𝜎 ′𝐿 = 𝜎 𝐿1 [𝑝 ↦ 𝜎 𝐿 (𝑞)] 

T-Offset 

p = q.offset(i) 𝜎 𝐿 (𝑞) = (𝑏, 𝑠, [𝑙, 𝑢], 𝑎, 𝑛, 𝑚) val (𝑖) = [𝑖 𝑚𝑖𝑛 , 𝑖 𝑚𝑎𝑥 ] sz = sizeof (𝑇 ) Σ1 = CleaR (𝑝, Σ) 𝜎 ′𝐴 = 𝜎 𝐴1 [Pt (𝑝) ↦ 𝜎 𝐴1 .Pt (𝑞)] 𝜎 ′𝐿 = 𝜎 𝐿1 [𝑝 ↦ (𝑏, 𝑠, [𝑙 + 𝑖 𝑚𝑖𝑛 ⋅ sz , 𝑢 + 𝑖 𝑚𝑎𝑥 ⋅ sz ], gcd (𝑎, sz ), 𝑛, 𝑚)] 

Fig. 3. Core Intra-Procedural Transfer Functions. 

Recursive traversal. When the analysis encounters a call d = F(args) , it temporarily switches to the callee and analyzes F in the caller context. Concretely, we create a fresh analysis context for 

F and initialize its entry state from the caller’s current state. We then model parameter passing by binding actual arguments to the callee’s formal parameters. After the callee reaches a fixed point, we map the abstract state of its return value back to the destination d in the caller, and resume propagation at the successor of the call site. This on-the-fly inlining preserves the caller’s context UnsafeChecker: Finding Soundness Bugs in Rust Safe Abstractions 13 

E-AliasRet          

> 𝑜 1, 𝑜 2∈𝒱 𝑜𝑢𝑡 𝑜 1≠ 𝑜 2Own (𝑜 1) ∩ Own (𝑜 2) ≠ ∅ Σ𝑓 𝑖𝑛𝑎𝑙 ⊢ 𝜄 end ⟹ERR(DoubleOwneRship)

E-MutAlias 𝑝 1, 𝑝 2 ∈ 𝒱 𝑜𝑢𝑡 ∧ 𝑝 1 ≠ 𝑝 2            

> is_ref (𝑝 1) ∧ is_ref (𝑝 2)Pt (𝑝 1) ∩ Pt (𝑝 2) ≠ ∅ (𝜎 𝐿 (𝑝 1). mut =Mut ∨ 𝜎 𝐿 (𝑝 2). mut =Mut )Σ𝑓 𝑖𝑛𝑎𝑙 ⊢ 𝜄 end ⟹ERR(MutAlias)

E-Dangling            

> 𝑝 ∈ 𝒱 𝑜𝑢𝑡 sizeof (𝑇 ) > 0 ∃𝑜 ∈ Pt (𝑝).𝜎 𝑂 (𝑜) ∩ { Dropped ,Moved ,Forgotten ,Uninit } ≠ ∅ Σ𝑓 𝑖𝑛𝑎𝑙 ⊢ 𝜄 end ⟹ERR(DanglingPtR)

E-Layout 𝑣 ∈ 𝒱 𝑜𝑢𝑡 ∧ Type (𝑣) = Vec < 𝑇 > 𝑝 = 𝑣. ptr , ℓ = 𝑣. len , 𝑐 = 𝑣. cap          

> (𝜎 𝐿 (𝑝). size < 𝑐 ⋅ sizeof (𝑇 )) ∨ (ℓ > 𝑐) ∨ (𝜎 𝐿 (𝑝). align <align_of (𝑇 )) ∨ (𝑐 ⋅ sizeof (𝑇 ) > isize::MAX )Σ𝑓 𝑖𝑛𝑎𝑙 ⊢ 𝜄 end ⟹ERR(InvalidLayout)

E-Leak             

> ℎ ∈ ℋ𝒪 Dropped ∉ 𝜎 𝑂 (ℎ) ∀𝑣 ∈ 𝒱 𝑜𝑢𝑡 .ℎ ∉ Own (𝑣) ∧ ℎ ∉ Pt (𝑣) Σ𝑓 𝑖𝑛𝑎𝑙 ⊢ 𝜄 end ⟹ERR(LeaK)

Fig. 4. Soundness Violation Detection Rules (Part 1: Boundary-Level Checks). 

and makes aliasing, lifecycle, and layout constraints flow naturally across calls, without building a separate inter-procedural CFG ahead of time. 

Recursion and external calls. To avoid non-termination, we impose an inline depth limit (default 

𝑘 = 3 ). If the limit is reached, or the callee body is unavailable (e.g., FFI), we use a conservative summary. The summary may mutate any reachable state of mutable arguments, and it returns an unconstrained value ( ⊤). 

3.7 Detecting Potential Violations 

We formalize detection as judgment rules of the form Σ ⊢ Ctx ⟹ ERR (𝜅) . Ctx denotes either a runtime instruction 𝜄 or the function exit point 𝜄 end . The rules are summarized in Figure 4 and Figure 5. We treat both boundary-level contract violations and instruction-level UB as evidence of unsoundness. Accordingly, we organize detection into two granularities. The first is a boundary-level check at 𝜄 end , which focuses on safety invariants exposed to safe clients. The second is an instruction-level check during propagation, which focuses on instruction-level UB inside unsafe code (e.g., invalid dereference and out-of-bounds access). 

Boundary-Level Checks. The core question is whether a safe API can leak an unsafe state that enables safe callers to trigger UB. We perform these checks at function exit ( 𝜄 end ) and apply them to observable output variables. We let 𝒱 𝑜𝑢𝑡 denote the set of values that escape to the caller at exit— return values, out-parameters (e.g., mutable reference targets that remain visible to the caller), and any other exposed references or owned values. Our boundary checks consider only variables in 𝒱 𝑜𝑢𝑡 . E-AliasRet prevents double-free by ensuring no two return values claim ownership of the same underlying resource (checking intersection of Own sets). E-MutAlias enforces Rust’s uniqueness guarantee by detecting if multiple return values (specifically references) alias the same location with at least one being mutable. E-Dangling ensures exposed pointers do not target invalid memory. E-Layout checks that assembled containers (e.g., Vec::from_raw ) satisfy their 14 Xizhe Yin, Yaokun Zhang, Yang Feng, and Baowen Xu 

E-Access 

𝜄 ∈ { read (𝑝), write (𝑝)} 𝑜 ∈ Pt (𝑝) sizeof (𝑇 ) > 0 𝑆 = 𝜎 𝑂 (𝑜) ∩ InvalidSet ≠ ∅ Σ ⊢ 𝜄 ⟹ ⎧⎨⎩

ERR(UAF) if Dropped ∈ 𝑆 

ERR(UBD) if Uninit ∈ 𝑆 

ERR(UAM) if (Moved ∈ 𝑆) ∨ ( Forgotten ∈ 𝑆) 

E-DoubleFree 

𝜄 = drop (𝑥) (∃ℎ ∈ Own (𝑥). Dropped ∈ 𝜎 𝑂 (ℎ)) ∨ (𝜎 𝑂 (𝑥) ∩ { Moved , Forgotten , Uninit } ≠ ∅) Σ ⊢ 𝜄 ⟹ ERR(DoubleFRee) 

E-RefCreation 𝜄 = mk_ref (𝑝) 𝑜 ∈ Pt (𝑝) Σ ⊢ 𝜄 ⟹ { ERR(InvalidRef) if (sizeof (𝑇 ) > 0) ∧ (𝜎 𝑂 (𝑜) ∩ InvalidSet ≠ ∅) 

ERR(Null/Align) if 𝜎 𝐿 (𝑝). align < align_of (𝑇 ) 

E-OOB/MA 

𝜄 = access (𝑝) (_, size , [𝑙, 𝑢], align , _, _) = 𝜎 𝐿 (𝑝) Σ ⊢ 𝜄 ⟹ { ERR(OOB) if 𝑙 < 0 ∨ (𝑢 + sizeof (𝑇 )) > size ERR(MA) if align < align_of (𝑇 ) 

E-NullDeref 

𝜄 ∈ { deref (𝑝), mk_ref (𝑝)} 𝜎 𝐿 (𝑝). null = MaybeNull 

Σ ⊢ 𝜄 ⟹ ERR(NullDeRef) 

E-SizeMismatcH 

𝜄 ∈ { ptr::read/write … } 𝜎 𝐿 (𝑝). size < sizeof (𝑇 ) Σ ⊢ 𝜄 ⟹ ERR(SizeMismatch) 

E-Proj 

𝜄 = Proj (𝑝, 𝑓 ) 𝛿 = offset (𝑓 ) 𝜎 𝐿 (𝑝). size < 𝛿 + sizeof (𝑓 ) Σ ⊢ 𝜄 ⟹ ERR(InvalidPRoj) 

E-PtrAritH 

𝜄 = 𝑝. add (𝑛) (_, size , [ _, 𝑢], _, _, _) = 𝜎 𝐿 (𝑝) 𝑢 + 𝑛 ⋅ sizeof (𝑇 ) > size 

Σ ⊢ 𝜄 ⟹ ERR(InvalidPtRARith) 

E-SliceInvalid 

𝜄 = slice::from_raw (𝑝, 𝑙𝑒𝑛) (𝑙𝑒𝑛 ⋅ sizeof (𝑇 ) > isize::MAX ) ∨ (𝑙𝑒𝑛 ⋅ sizeof (𝑇 ) > 𝜎 𝐿 (𝑝). size )Σ ⊢ 𝜄 ⟹ ERR(InvalidSlice) 

E-MutateImmut 

𝜄 = write (𝑝, _) 𝜎 𝐿 (𝑝). mut = Immut 

Σ ⊢ 𝜄 ⟹ ERR(MutateImmutable) 

Fig. 5. Soundness Violation Detection Rules (Part 2: Instruction-Level Checks). InvalidSet ={Dropped , Moved , Forgotten , Uninit }.

validity invariants on internal components (pointer, length, and capacity). This includes capacity bounds, length limits, alignment, and isize::MAX overflow. Finally, E-LeaK identifies resource leaks by checking for any heap object ℎ that remains live ( Dropped ∉ 𝜎 𝑂 (ℎ) ) at function exit but is unreachable from the caller (i.e., not owned or pointed to by any variable in 𝒱 𝑜𝑢𝑡 ). 

Instruction-Level Checks. E-Access guards against UAF, UBD, and UAM. E-DoubleFRee pre-vents dropping invalid or already-dropped resources. It checks the state of the resource rather than just the variable, which reduces false positives from spurious aliasing. E-RefCReation ensures UnsafeChecker: Finding Soundness Bugs in Rust Safe Abstractions 15 

references are created from valid, aligned, non-null pointers. E-OOB/MA and E-NullDeRef han-dle standard memory errors. E-PtRARith and E-PRoj enforce in-bounds requirements for pointer arithmetic and field projection (covering [place-projection] UB). E-SliceInvalid prevents the creation of invalid slices (e.g., length exceeding allocation). 

4 Experiment Settings 4.1 Research Questions 

We evaluate UnsafeChecker by answering the following research questions: RQ1. Effectiveness : On a ground-truth CVE benchmark, can our framework outperform state-of-the-art tools in detecting Rust-specific UBs? RQ2. Precision and Recall Analysis : What precision/recall trade-offs does our framework ex-hibit, and what are the main sources of false positives and false negatives? RQ3. Efficiency : Is our framework efficient enough for real-world use, with acceptable analysis time and memory overhead on large Rust crates? RQ4. Large-Scale Discovery of Unknown Bugs : Can our framework discover previously unre-ported bugs in real-world Rust crates at scale? 

4.2 Dataset Construction 

We constructed two distinct datasets to support the studies in Section 5: 

Dataset A (Known Vulnerabilities) : We selected 46 CVEs from the RustSec Advisory Database. To construct a focused benchmark, we specifically targeted soundness issues caused by unsafe memory operations (e.g., buffer overflow, use-after-free, uninitialized memory) that fall within our sequential analysis scope. Accordingly, we excluded vulnerabilities that rely on external se-mantics (e.g., FFI, platform-specific hardware) or application-specific logic errors (e.g., index desyn-chronization or complex state machine bugs). Because many baseline tools rely on older compiler versions that often fail to compile the original crates, we extracted the key vulnerable code into minimized libraries that faithfully reproduce the original bugs. We manually verified these test cases and inspected the tool warnings to ensure that any potential new bugs in the constructed code are correctly identified, avoiding incorrect false positive reports. We use RustSec-derived cases rather than Miri or Rudra benchmark suites as the primary benchmark because Miri is an execution validator rather than a static-analysis benchmark, and Rudra includes bug classes out-side our current modeled scope; all baselines are therefore compared on the same RustSec-derived subjects. This dataset serves as the ground truth for measuring detection effectiveness. 

Dataset B (Wild Crates) : To evaluate the bug detection capability of UnsafeChecker in the wild, we scanned the entire crates.io registry. Due to the large volume of results, it is impractical to manually audit all of them. Instead, we manually inspected the reports from approximately 10,000 crates to verify the findings. From this inspected subset, we identified 83 distinct crates containing potential bugs, which form Dataset B. These crates span diverse domains, including data structures, memory management, and no-std libraries, with a total of over 30 million downloads. 

4.3 Baseline Selection 

We selected three representative baselines covering distinct Rust static analysis paradigms, ensur-ing fair comparison against state-of-the-art tools. All baselines used their latest stable versions and default configurations to match real-world usage. All experiments were conducted on the same machine with an Intel Core i7 processor and 64GB of RAM, running Ubuntu 22.04 LTS. (1) MirChecker [16]: MIR-level static analyzer, uses numerical/symbolic analysis for generic errors (e.g., integer overflow) but lacks Rust-specific ownership tracking. 16 Xizhe Yin, Yaokun Zhang, Yang Feng, and Baowen Xu 

(2) Rudra [4]: Unsafe code pattern matcher, flags risky unsafe constructs (e.g., ‘ptr::copy‘ in unsafe blocks) but lacks semantic understanding. (3) SafeDrop [7]: Deallocation-focused analyzer, detects double free/UAF but ignores align-ment/OOB and nested ownership. 

4.4 Implementation 

Our prototype, UnsafeChecker , is implemented as a Rust compiler plugin based on the MIR (Mid-level Intermediate Representation). It uses the rustc_middle and rustc_mir_dataflow libraries for MIR traversal and dataflow analysis. For symbolic modeling of memory layouts and values, we drew inspiration from the design of MIRAI [22], an abstract interpreter for Rust. While MIRAI focuses on generic property verification (e.g., panics and standard assertions) using a heavy-weight solver-based approach, our implementation specializes its symbolic memory model to efficiently track Rust’s unique ownership and lifecycle semantics alongside spatial constraints. For numerical analysis, we integrate the Apron numerical abstract domain library. Constraint solving is handled by the Z3 SMT solver. 

5 Results and Analysis 5.1 RQ1: Effectiveness 

To evaluate the effectiveness of UnsafeChecker in detecting real-world vulnerabilities, we tested it against Dataset A, which comprises 46 known CVEs. In contrast to RQ4, which targets open-world bug discovery in the wild (Dataset B), RQ1 evaluates detection effectiveness on a closed benchmark with ground truth and compares against state-of-the-art baselines. We compared our results with three baseline tools: MirChecker, Rudra, and SafeDrop. Table 1 presents the comparative results. We count a CVE as detected if a tool reports at least one true positive alert that matches the vulnerability, based on our manual audit of the tool outputs. 

Table 1. Comparison of bug detection effectiveness on 46 known vulnerabilities (Dataset A). Detected by Type counts the number of unique bugs (ground-truth patterns) successfully detected by each tool for each category. Total Bugs is the number of detected bugs out of the 53 total ground-truth bugs. Total CVE is the number of unique CVEs detected out of 46. The Recall (Bug) column reports bug-level recall. Total Alerts shows the total number of warnings generated by the tool, TP Alerts is the number of true positive alerts, and Precision is computed as TP Alerts /Total Alerts . The number in parentheses in the header row indicates the number of ground-truth bugs for that specific unsoundness category.                                                    

> Tool Detected by Type (Bugs) Total Total Recall TP Total Precision Uninit (24) OOB (25) Own (4) Bugs (53) CVE (46) (Bug) Alerts Alerts
> MirChecker 000000.0% 045 0.0% SafeDrop 001111.9% 1425.0% Rudra 11 0011 11 20.9% 11 11 100.0%
> UnsafeChecker (Ours) 15 19 236 32 67.9% 64 124 51.6%

UnsafeChecker detected 32 out of 46 vulnerabilities (69.6%), significantly outperforming the best baseline, Rudra, which detected only 11 (23.9%). As shown in Table 1, UnsafeChecker demonstrates superior effectiveness across all vulnerability categories. At the bug level (ground-truth patterns), 

UnsafeChecker successfully covered 36 out of 53 bugs (67.9%) , including 15 uninitialized mem-ory bugs and 19 out-of-bounds bugs, whereas Rudra only covered 11 bugs in total. Compared with Rudra, UnsafeChecker identified an additional 21 CVEs. The 53 ground-truth bug patterns fur-ther refine into six categories: 11 uninitialized-memory bugs, 13 length or state-consistency bugs, 25 out-of-bounds or pointer-boundary bugs, 1 use-after-free bug, 1 double-ownership bug, and UnsafeChecker: Finding Soundness Bugs in Rust Safe Abstractions 17                      

> 1pub fn into_inner(self) -> T{
> 2let span: * const Span = &self.span;
> 3let inner: * const ManuallyDrop<T> = &self.inner;
> 4mem::forget(self);
> 5let _span = unsafe { span.read() };
> 6let inner = unsafe { inner.read() };
> 7ManuallyDrop::into_inner(inner)
> 8}

Listing 3. Buggy code for RUSTSEC-2023-0078 

in tracing : take field pointers and then call 

mem::forget .            

> 1fn random_seed(_: &Path , _: &str ) -> [ u64 ; 2] {
> 2use std::mem::uninitialized as rand;
> 3unsafe { [rand::< u64 >() ^ 0x12345678,
> 4rand::< u64 >() ^ 0x87654321] }
> 5}

Listing 4. An instance of uninitialized used for entropy generation. 

2 dangling-pointer bugs. Table 1 aggregates these fine-grained labels into three analysis-facing groups: uninitialized-memory and length/state-consistency bugs are reported under uninitialized memory, out-of-bounds and pointer-boundary bugs under out-of-bounds, and use-after-free, dou-ble ownership, and dangling pointers under dangling pointers. To further illustrate UnsafeChecker ’s detection capability, we highlight three representative cases missed by all baselines. One example is RUSTSEC-2023-0078 in the well-known tracing 

crate maintained by tokio-rs . Listing 3 shows the vulnerable pattern: it takes pointers to fields and then calls mem::forget(self) . This is UB because mem::forget(self) consumes (moves) 

self ; after that point, self is no longer live and the compiler may reuse its stack storage, inval-idating the saved pointers to its fields. The advisory was fixed by replacing mem::forget with 

ManuallyDrop in Instrumented::into_inner 1, which keeps the storage valid when taking field pointers. In our model, mem::forget(self) transitions self to the Forgotten state, which rep-resents a semantic move with destructor suppression. Subsequent reads through pointers derived from self are then reported as a use-after-move alarm. Reading from uninitialized memory is un-defined behavior in Rust. In RUSTSEC-2018-0022 , the developer used std::mem::uninitialized 

to read stack garbage for entropy. For example, Listing 4 shows an instance reported in the tempo-rary crate 2. UnsafeChecker ’s lifecycle domain tracks the Uninit state of the returned value and reports the subsequent read as an uninitialized-memory violation. For pointer bounds, we detect an unsoundness of wrflib 3 in RUSTSEC-2025-0072 . The functions under wrflib::byte_extract 

are wrappers over pointer offset (e.g., data.as_ptr().add(offset) ) without sufficient bounds checks. Our layout domain models the spatial attributes of the pointer and the bounds of the al-location. By propagating these constraints to the dereference point, it can determine that offset 

may exceed the object’s size, pinpointing the out-of-bounds violation. Baselines missed these cases because they require semantic reasoning over object states and derived pointers, rather than matching a specific risky API signature. UnsafeChecker detected more than 20 vulnerabilities that were missed by all other baselines. This demonstrates that Un-safeChecker fills a significant gap in Rust static analysis. 

5.2 RQ2: Precision and Recall Analysis 

While RQ1 focuses on effectiveness (recall), this section analyzes the trade-off between precision and recall by inspecting false positives and false negatives. As shown in Table 1, UnsafeChecker 

generated a total of 124 alerts. Among them, 64 are true positive alerts (which successfully cover the 36 ground-truth bugs) and 60 are false positive alerts, resulting in an alert-level precision  

> 1https://github.com/tokio-rs/tracing/pull/2765
> 2https://github.com/stainless-steel/temporary/issues/2
> 3https://rustsec.org/advisories/RUSTSEC-2025-0072.html 18 Xizhe Yin, Yaokun Zhang, Yang Feng, and Baowen Xu

of 51.6%. Despite its high recall compared to baselines, UnsafeChecker missed 14 vulnerabilities (30.4%) and 17 ground-truth bugs (32.1%). We organize the main sources of imprecision by domain (Section 3). 

5.2.1 False Positives. We analyzed the 60 false positives to identify the primary sources of impreci-sion. The largest share (51.7%, 31/60) stems from the layout domain , primarily because our layout facts are conservative lower bounds and our arithmetic reasoning uses widening and interval ab-stractions. When indices depend on complex non-linear operations (e.g., bitwise arithmetic) or external inputs, our solver may fail to derive tight constraints. In such cases, we keep conservative offset intervals, which can lead to potential out-of-bounds or misalignment alarms. The lifecycle domain contributes another 35.0% (21/60), often caused by control-flow merges and opaque calls. Our lifecycle domain represents uncertainty as sets of states (e.g., { Live , Uninit }), so conditional initialization patterns naturally lead to “maybe uninitialized” alarms. This is amplified at external call boundaries (e.g., FFI) and at recursion cutoffs, where we conservatively over-approximate ef-fects and may lose the evidence needed to prove initialization. Finally, the ownership domain 

accounts for 13.3% (8/60), typically arising from path-insensitive aliasing approximations in func-tions with complex control flows, where the tool may incorrectly infer double frees by merging disjoint paths. Dataset B should not be interpreted as a closed-world precision experiment, because the remain-ing warnings were not exhaustively labeled. Instead, it measures alarm density, triage workload, and validated discovery yield. Among the approximately 10,000 manually inspected crates, Un-safeChecker flagged 378 crates and produced 2,639 raw warnings, which were de-duplicated into 1,736 unique warnings during triage. This bounded workload led to 114 Miri-validated bugs across 83 crates; 45 have been acknowledged by developers or RustSec experts, and 27 have been fixed. For alert-volume context, Rudra successfully compiled and analyzed 2,892 crates in the same 10,000-crate set, flagged 119 crates, and produced 326 warnings. On the same Rudra-compilable subset, 

UnsafeChecker flagged 141 crates and produced 1,296 raw warnings, deduplicated to 784 unique warnings. These numbers describe workload and triage scale, not closed-world precision. 

5.2.2 False Negatives. We manually inspected the 14 missed vulnerabilities and grouped their pri-mary causes into four scope or precision boundaries. First, 7 missed CVEs require library or API semantics not explicitly modeled by the current implementation, such as Cell , alignment-related allocation APIs, debug_assert , or specialized crate APIs. For example, UnsafeChecker missed 

RUSTSEC-2023-0017 (maligned) because we do not yet model Layout::from_size_align , lead-ing to missing layout constraints for the allocated pointer. Second, 3 require more precise numeric, loop, or iterator reasoning than our current interval abstraction maintains. Third, 2 require per-element array or initialization-state tracking finer than our current memory abstraction. Finally, 2 depend on external or cross-boundary logic state, such as cache behavior or raw-pointer state changes across method sequences. Despite these misses, UnsafeChecker ’s detection capability re-mains significantly higher than all baselines. The missed cases identify engineering and modeling boundaries rather than invalidating the modeled warning rules. 

5.3 RQ3: Efficiency 

We evaluated the runtime efficiency of UnsafeChecker to determine its suitability for real-world development workflows. We report both end-to-end running time and the split between Un-safeChecker’s analysis pass and compilation/non-analysis overhead. The end-to-end number reflects user-visible cost, while the split isolates the cost of the analysis itself. We measured the running time and memory overhead for 9 representative crates from Dataset B, ranging from small utilities to large-scale applications. UnsafeChecker: Finding Soundness Bugs in Rust Safe Abstractions 19 

Table 2 details the performance metrics for these crates. Across the 9 crates, the median end-to-end running time is 11.4s, with a maximum of 264.0s. For small libraries ( <10k LOC), the analysis typically completes within 10 seconds. For large crates ( >100k LOC), the analysis finishes within 5 minutes, and the slowest case we measured ( meilisearch ) completes in about 264s. The median memory usage is 475.2 MB and the peak is 4.3 GB, which fits typical developer machines. 

Table 2. Efficiency of UnsafeChecker on Real-World Crates. A(s) reports UnsafeChecker analysis time, 

C/O(s) reports compilation and other non-analysis overhead, and T(s) reports end-to-end time.                                                                       

> Small ( <10k LOC) Medium (10k-100k LOC) Large ( >100k LOC) Crate LOC A(s) C/O(s) T(s) M(MB) Crate LOC A(s) C/O(s) T(s) M(MB) Crate LOC A(s) C/O(s) T(s) M(MB)
> bitflags 5.0k 0.6 0.3 0.9 118.7 serde 33.3k 4.4 1.7 6.1 275.7 diesel 126.8k 89.2 24.3 113.5 1350.2 log 3.8k 1.1 0.5 1.6 109.0 regex 96.5k 6.8 1.8 8.6 505.2 meilisearch 244.6k 211.7 52.3 264.0 4329.2 bytes 7.1k 8.7 2.7 11.4 170.2 tokio 93.1k 14.6 4.5 19.1 475.2 nushell 287.6k 70.9 23.7 94.6 2853.6

The running time does not strictly correlate with LOC, as it also depends on code complexity (e.g., heavy use of macros or complex control flows). For instance, diesel (126.8k LOC) takes longer (113.5s) than nushell (287.6k LOC, 94.6s). Overall, these results show that our shared-state analysis is efficient enough for daily use. At ecosystem scale, running on a compute server, 

UnsafeChecker analyzed over 100,000 crates within two days. We also compared the efficiency of UnsafeChecker against the baselines on Dataset A (the CVE benchmark). The reported times include both Rust compilation and tool execution. UnsafeChecker 

analyzed all 46 CVE cases in 35.7 seconds (0.78s per case on average). In contrast, Rudra took 179.7 seconds ( 5× slower), and MirChecker required 781.9 seconds ( > 20× slower). SafeDrop achieved a similar speed (36.1s), but as shown in RQ1, it only detected one vulnerability in this dataset. This indicates that UnsafeChecker keeps the analysis cost practical while preserving the RQ1 effective-ness advantage. 

5.4 RQ4: Large-Scale Discovery of Unknown Bugs 

We applied UnsafeChecker to the entire crates.io registry to demonstrate its scalability. Running on a compute server, UnsafeChecker analyzed over 100,000 crates within two days. Unlike RQ1–RQ3, which evaluate against a ground-truth CVE benchmark, RQ4 targets open-world bug discovery, where no complete ground truth exists. Due to the high volume of alarms from over 100,000 crates, we employed random sampling to select approximately 10,000 crates for manual verification. This process yielded 83 distinct crates with potential bugs (Dataset B). Our verification criterion is strict: a warning is considered a bug only if we can construct a Proof-of-Concept (PoC) triggering undefined behavior (UB) on MIRI via safe public APIs. The results are summarized in Table 3. Within the manually inspected subset, UnsafeChecker 

identified 114 Miri-validated bugs across 83 crates. Importantly, we manually validated these reports by constructing executable PoCs that trigger UB in Miri through safe public APIs. The PoCs were manually written; UnsafeChecker ’s reports guided their construction by identifying the unsafe operation, the violated invariant, and the relevant state trace. This result should be read as open-world discovery yield rather than alert-level precision. We reported all these findings to the crate maintainers. As of the time of writing, developers or RustSec experts have acknowledged 45 bugs and fixed 27 of them . Eleven validated findings have received public vulnerability identifiers. The remaining reports are currently pending developer response. The flagged crates range from small utilities to large libraries, confirming the tool’s scalability. Figure 6 details the characteristics of the flagged crates. These libraries are widely used and actively maintained, as reflected by their download statistics, meaning that they affect the Rust ecosystem’s security. Vulnerabilities span 34 20 Xizhe Yin, Yaokun Zhang, Yang Feng, and Baowen Xu 57 42 28 14 0Total Downloads Crates with bugs 15 52 11 4 110 1 10 2 10 3 10 4 10 5 10 6 10 7 10 8

(a) Total Downloads 39 29 19 90Recent 90d Downloads Crates with bugs  26 36 8 84110 1 10 2 10 3 10 4 10 5 10 6 10 7 10 8 (b) Recent 90-day Downloads 48 36 24 12 0LoC Crates with bugs 232 44 4 110 1 10 2 10 3 10 4 10 5 10 6 10 7 (c) LoC Distribution Fig. 6. Characteristics of 83 Flagged Crates (114 Miri-Validated Bugs) 

categories, with data-structures , no-std , and memory-management being most frequent, indicating that even foundational libraries often fail to guarantee memory safety. The issues detected by UnsafeChecker encompass a broad spectrum of memory safety viola-tions, along with a small set of auxiliary checks. They are not concentrated in a fixed ptr::read 

or mem::forget pattern: at the bug level, these two APIs account for only 5 and 1 of the 53 Dataset A bug patterns covered by UnsafeChecker , and 19 and 4 of the 114 Dataset B bugs, respectively. In Dataset B, the validated bugs involve 129 related unsafe-API call sites across 21 APIs, including pointer arithmetic and offset APIs, unchecked slice/string construction APIs, raw ownership or allocation-takeover APIs, and type or initialization invariant bypasses. In Table 3, we categorize these 114 reports by their observable manifestations—such as out-of-bounds (OOB) access or use-after-free (UAF)—to facilitate reporting and comparison. However, UnsafeChecker detects these vulnerabilities by identifying invariant violations over the facts maintained in its shared abstract state. Specifically, violations in the layout domain account for the majority of cases, including out-of-bounds (60 cases), misaligned access (11 cases), and various forms of invalid pointers (e.g., null dereferences). These issues typically arise from incorrect pointer arithmetic or unchecked casts that violate spatial memory constraints. The ownership domain and lifecycle domain are crit-ical for detecting temporal safety issues; they identified ownership duplication (17 cases) and 

dangling pointers (7 cases) by tracking invalid object state transitions, such as accessing moved values or dropping the same resource twice. Beyond these, UnsafeChecker also flagged a small set of auxiliary issues, including resource leaks (5 cases), integer overflow , division by zero ,and UTF-8 validation . These issues are not strictly memory-unsafe by themselves (e.g., mem-ory leaks are safe in Rust), but they frequently indicate logical errors or appear in index and size computations that feed into unsafe memory accesses. 

Table 3. Summary of detected, confirmed, and fixed issues by type. Abbreviations: OOB (Out-of-Bounds), OD (Ownership Duplication), MA (Misaligned Access), IO (Integer Overflow), IP (Invalid Pointer), DP (Dan-gling Pointer), DBZ (Division by Zero), UTF8 (UTF-8 Validation), RL (Resource Leak), NP (Null Pointer), UM (Uninitialized Memory). Crates counts unique crates per type (a crate may appear in multiple columns), so summing this row will over-count and can exceed the total. 

OOB OD MA IO IP DP DBZ UTF8 RL NP UM Other Total 

Crates 42 13 8 3 3 6 1 1 5 2 1 2 83 Detected 60 17 11 3 3 7 1 1 5 2 1 3 114 Confirmed 20 10 4 2 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 0 45 Fixed 13 6 0 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 0 27 

Table 3 shows that layout-related issues dominate the reports: Out-of-Bounds accounts for 52.6% (60/114) and misaligned access accounts for 9.6% (11/114). Temporal and ownership-related issues are also common, including ownership duplication (17/114) and dangling pointers (7/114). These UnsafeChecker: Finding Soundness Bugs in Rust Safe Abstractions 21 

distributions align with our three-component classification, with most confirmed bugs rooted in violations of layout, object-validity, or ownership invariants. 

5.4.1 Case Studies. We present four case studies of real-world bugs. Cases 1, 3, and 4 illustrate how our framework detects composite UBs missed by baselines, while Case 2 demonstrates an auxiliary check for resource leaks. 

Case 1: Dangling Pointer in multiversx_chain_vm (132k downloads). We detected a criti-cal drop-safety violation in multiversx_chain_vm that leads to a dangling pointer. The function 

with_shared_mut_ref , shown in Listing 5, uses unsafe code to duplicate ownership of a value behind a mutable reference ( &mut T) using std::ptr::read . This operation performs a bitwise copy of the underlying value without consuming the original, effectively creating two owners for the same resource: one in the temporary Rc and one still behind the reference. If the user-provided closure f panics, the temporary Rc is dropped during stack unwinding, deallocating the underlying resource obj . However, the original slot still contains a stale copy of obj . As a result, the caller can later access freed memory through t, and dropping t triggers a double free. 

Listing 5 Double Free vulnerability in multiversx_chain_vm triggered by panic unwinding.                   

> 1pub fn with_shared_mut_ref<T, F>(t: &mut T, f: F) {
> 2unsafe {
> 3// ... (extract obj) ...
> 4let obj = std::ptr::read(t);
> 5let obj_rc = Rc::new(obj);
> 6f(obj_rc.clone()); // [2] Panic drops obj_rc (Free #1); skips [3]
> 7std::ptr::write(t, ...); // [3] Restore t (Only on normal return)
> 8}
> 9// ...
> 10 }

Case 2: Resource Leak in bytes-kman . While memory leaks are strictly considered safe in Rust’s semantic model (e.g., Box::leak is a safe function), they often indicate logical bugs in re-source management. As an auxiliary check, UnsafeChecker identifies such resource leaks. We de-tected a significant leak in the from_bytes implementation for arrays in bytes-kman . As shown in Listing 6, the code first collects deserialized elements into a temporary Vec<T> . To return a fixed-size array [T; LEN] , it converts the vector into a boxed slice and calls Box::leak to obtain a static reference. Finally, it uses ptr::read to copy the data from this static reference into the return value. Although Box::leak intentionally extends the lifetime of the heap memory, ptr::read 

only performs a bitwise copy without taking ownership of the backing allocation. Consequently, the leaked heap memory becomes unreachable and is never deallocated. UnsafeChecker flagged this issue by checking that the heap object remains live at function exit but becomes unreachable from the caller (Rule E-Leak ). 

Listing 6 Memory Leak in bytes-kman due to Box::leak and ptr::read .                    

> 1fn from_bytes(buffer: &mut TBuffer) -> Option<Self> {
> 2let mut res = Vec::with_capacity(LEN);
> 3// ... (fill res) ...
> 4let res = Box::leak(res.into_boxed_slice()); // [1] Leak heap memory
> 5let res = unsafe {
> 6std::ptr::read(res.as_ptr() as *const [T; LEN]) // [2] Copy bits; [1] never freed!
> 7};
> 8Some(res)
> 9}

Case 3: Ownership Duplication in doubly . We identified a critical double free in the 

pop_back method of doubly (Listing 7). The code uses ptr::read to duplicate ownership of the value from the heap node into val . It then drops the node by reconstructing a Box from the 22 Xizhe Yin, Yaokun Zhang, Yang Feng, and Baowen Xu 

raw pointer. However, dropping a Box<Node<T>> (line 8) automatically drops its content. Since 

ptr::read duplicates the value without consuming the original, this drop frees the resource while 

val still holds a copy, causing a double free. Our tool detected this by tracking the ownership alias created by ptr::read and flagging the subsequent drop on the aliased path. 

Listing 7 Ownership Duplication leading to Double Free in doubly .                      

> 1pub fn pop_back(& mut self) -> Option<T> {
> 2unsafe {
> 3if self.length == 0 {
> 4None
> 5}else {
> 6let val = ptr::read(&(*self.last).value); // [1] Ownership duplication
> 7// ... (pointer updates) ...
> 8let old_last = self.last;
> 9// ...
> 10 drop(mem::transmute::<_, Box<Node<T>>>(old_last)); // [2] Drop box implicitly drops value (Free #1)
> 11 Some(val) // [3] Caller drop causes Free #2
> 12 }
> 13 }
> 14 }

Case 4: Out-of-Bounds in auto_vec . We identified an Out-of-Bounds (OOB) vulnerability in the iterator implementation of auto_vec , a vector implementation with automatic child removal. As shown in Listing 8, the iter method initializes the iterator by calculating a current pointer that points before the start of the backing array. It computes (&children[0]).sub(1) , intending to increment it back to the start in the first call to next() . However, in Rust (and LLVM), per-forming pointer arithmetic that moves a pointer outside the allocated object (even momentarily) is undefined behavior, unless it points one past the end. Moving before the start is always illegal. Our tool detected this via the layout domain , which tracks the pointer offset relative to the base object. The operation sub(1) resulted in a negative offset, triggering Rule E-OOB/MA .

Listing 8 Out-of-Bounds access in auto_vec iterator initialization.                      

> 1pub fn iter(&self) -> Iter <T> {
> 2Iter {
> 3last: &self .children[self.len() - 1] as *const _,
> 4current: unsafe {
> 5(&self.children[0] as *const ...).sub(1) // [1] UB: moves ptr BEFORE alloc start
> 6},
> 7lifetime: PhantomData ,
> 8}
> 9}

6 Discussion 6.1 Comparison with Baselines 

UnsafeChecker detects potential soundness violations by checking whether unsafe code upholds the safety invariants required by its safe APIs within the modeled scope. This goal differs from generic bug-finding tools, which focus on localized execution errors (e.g., panics or crashes) rather than invalid states escaping through safe boundaries. Baselines provide strong solutions for spe-cific bug classes. Rudra is a pattern matcher over unsafe idioms. SafeDrop focuses on deallocation bugs by recognizing specific lifetime-ending events. MirChecker applies generic symbolic reason-ing over MIR but does not model Rust-specific ownership contracts. In contrast, UnsafeChecker 

restores the semantic context erased by unsafe code. It maintains a shared state with ownership, object-validity, and layout components. The value of this design is not that every warning rule uses all components at once, but that each rule can consume the facts required by the correspond-ing Rust obligation within one flow-sensitive MIR state. Potential soundness violations often span UnsafeChecker: Finding Soundness Bugs in Rust Safe Abstractions 23 

multiple steps and multiple kinds of invariants. For example, the doubly bug (Listing 7) starts from duplicating a raw pointer and later frees the underlying object. The tracing bug (Listing 3) per-forms a move-like action ( mem::forget(self) ) and then dereferences pointers derived from self .These cases require an analysis to track how ownership transfers and drops affect the liveness of aliased pointers. Pattern-based checks remain valuable for quickly flagging common misuse pat-terns, but they are not designed to connect such multi-step interactions. Similarly, layout-related bugs such as wrflib (Section 5.1) require reasoning about derived pointers and bounds across mul-tiple statements. By tracking these semantics flow-sensitively, UnsafeChecker can detect complex violations that evade pattern matchers. Furthermore, to explain potential alarms, UnsafeChecker 

retains alternative object-validity states at control-flow joins instead of collapsing them to a coarse unknown state. For example, the lifecycle domain represents uncertainty as sets of states (e.g., 

{Live , Uninit }), which helps explain potential alarms but does not eliminate path-insensitivity (Section 5.2). 

6.2 Threats to Validity 

We identify potential threats to the validity of our experimental results: 

Internal Validity. The accuracy of our evaluation relies on the correctness of our ground truth and verification process. For Dataset A, we used established CVEs from the RustSec database. For Dataset B, the lack of ground truth poses a challenge. To mitigate bias in our manual verification, we use a strict criterion: we treat a warning as a bug only if we can construct an executable PoC that triggers Undefined Behavior in Miri. This ensures that our reported True Positives are genuine soundness violations. Another potential threat is the configuration of baseline tools. To ensure fair-ness, we used their latest stable versions with default configurations. We also minimized libraries to resolve compilation errors, ensuring a fair comparison with baselines. 

External Validity. Our results on Dataset A (46 CVEs) and Dataset B (83 flagged crates) might not generalize to all Rust crates. Specifically, our strict inclusion criteria for Dataset A resulted in a somewhat imbalanced distribution of bug types, which may not perfectly reflect the natural distribution of unknown bugs found in the wild (Dataset B). However, Dataset A still covers the most critical categories of memory safety CVEs (e.g., Uninit, OOB, UAF). Furthermore, Dataset B is drawn from the entire crates.io registry, covering diverse domains from low-level utilities to high-level applications. While we cannot claim effectiveness on non-public codebases, our evaluation on the public ecosystem provides strong evidence of UnsafeChecker ’s real-world applicability. 

6.3 Limitations and Future Work 

UnsafeChecker has several limitations, though they do not significantly undermine its effective-ness in detecting common vulnerabilities. (1) Scope. UnsafeChecker focuses on sequential mem-ory safety violations and soundness issues. It does not target application-level logic bugs. Addition-ally, it does not model concurrency or synchronization primitives. As a result, it cannot detect data races or improper use of Sync /Send traits. However, empirical evidence suggests that sequential memory safety violations remain the primary source of unsoundness in Rust ecosystems. (2) Preci-sion and Over-approximation. As a static analyzer, UnsafeChecker uses conservative warning generation for the modeled cases, which can introduce false positives. At the same time, bounded inlining, opaque calls, unmodeled APIs, and lost pointer identity can still cause false negatives. Our layout domain uses interval abstraction for pointer arithmetic, which can be imprecise for complex non-linear computations (e.g., bitwise operations). Additionally, we handle FFI calls and deep recursion conservatively by over-approximating their effects. Despite these approximations, our evaluation demonstrates that UnsafeChecker maintains a practical precision rate. (3) Mod-eling Scope. Our analysis primarily focuses on modeling key APIs that are critical for memory 24 Xizhe Yin, Yaokun Zhang, Yang Feng, and Baowen Xu 

safety semantics, such as Vec , Box , and raw pointer operations. We do not fully model the entire Rust standard library, particularly specialized APIs (e.g., custom allocators) or complex interior mutability patterns (e.g., deep usage of RefCell ). However, our targeted modeling strategy cov-ers the majority of unsafe usage patterns in our datasets, and unmodeled APIs can be supported with additional engineering effort. We identify several promising directions for future research. First, while our framework ef-fectively targets sequential memory safety, extending it to model concurrency primitives would broaden its applicability to multi-threaded contexts, such as detecting data races. Second, integrat-ing more expressive abstract domains could further refine precision in complex pointer arithmetic involving non-linear constraints. Finally, as the Rust ecosystem evolves, expanding the semantic modeling of standard library APIs remains an ongoing engineering effort to support emerging safe abstractions. 

7 Related Work 

Static Analysis for Unsafe Rust. Several tools analyze Rust code to detect memory safety risks. Rupta [15] performs context-sensitive pointer analysis on Rust MIR, which provides a foundation for MIR-level reasoning about pointer behavior. MirChecker [16] applies symbolic execution to Rust MIR and targets generic bugs such as integer overflows and panics. Rudra [4] uses heuristic pattern matching to flag risky unsafe constructs and reports issues such as incorrect Vec::set_len 

usage and variance-related mistakes. SafeDrop [7] focuses on deallocation bugs (e.g., Use-After-Free and Double-Free). These tools are effective for specific bug classes but do not directly check whether a safe API upholds Rust’s safety invariants. In contrast, UnsafeChecker detects potential soundness violations in safe abstractions by modeling the ownership, object-validity, and layout facts relevant to its warning rules. Safe4U [14] checks safe encapsulations against contracts mined from API documentation. We treat it as complementary and exclude it from our baseline compar-ison. 

Rust Semantics and Verification. Stacked Borrows [11] and Tree Borrows [27] define opera-tional models for Rust aliasing, borrowing, and pointer provenance. These semantics are foun-dational for explaining when reference and pointer operations are valid. UnsafeChecker has a narrower and more implementation-oriented goal: it does not attempt to implement a complete Rust provenance or aliasing semantics. Instead, it tracks the ownership, object-validity, and layout facts needed by its warning rules over MIR, and treats behaviors outside these models, such as pointer-integer-pointer round trips and unmodeled library semantics, as outside its current scope. RustBelt [12] and Aeneas [10] provide proof-oriented foundations and verification workflows for Rust programs. Such systems target correctness arguments under explicit semantic models and specifications. In contrast, UnsafeChecker is an automatic static bug detector for unsafe im-plementations of safe abstractions: it scales to crate-level analysis and reports potential violations that can be validated dynamically, rather than proving full Rust semantic correctness. Place Capability Graphs [9] are closest in spirit to UnsafeChecker ’s ownership reasoning, since they model permissions and capability changes for Rust places. The scope differs, however. PCG provides a general-purpose model of Rust’s ownership and borrowing guarantees, whereas Un-safeChecker combines ownership facts with object-lifecycle and layout facts to detect specific classes of memory-safety-relevant violations in unsafe safe abstractions. Accordingly, our evalua-tion measures large-scale bug-finding yield and validation of reported issues, rather than semantic model coverage or direct verification strength. UnsafeChecker: Finding Soundness Bugs in Rust Safe Abstractions 25 

Dynamic Analysis and Program Verification Tools. Miri [23] provides a concrete interpreter for detecting Undefined Behavior in Rust and serves as a ground-truth validator for many analy-ses, including ours. Its coverage depends on available test inputs. Formal tools such as Kani [5], Prusti [2], Creusot [8], and Verus [13] can prove properties against specifications, but scaling them to large codebases with extensive raw-pointer manipulation remains challenging. OOM-Guard [6] mitigates out-of-memory risks at runtime and is orthogonal to memory corruption. 

Development Support and Documentation Analysis. VRLifeTime [30] and Yuga [18] integrate dataflow analyses into IDEs for lifetime visualization, primarily targeting safe code and explicit lifetimes. ’R [20] and RustC4 [29] detect inconsistencies between code and documentation, while rust-code-analysis [1] provides structural metrics. Cargo-call-stack [17] analyzes stack usage for embedded systems. These tools improve developer workflows but do not directly check soundness invariants inside unsafe implementations. 

8 Conclusion 

In this paper, we presented UnsafeChecker , a static analysis framework for detecting potential soundness violations in Rust safe abstractions. By maintaining ownership, object-validity, and layout facts in a shared MIR-level state, UnsafeChecker reports both boundary-level contract vi-olations and instruction-level undefined behavior within its modeled sequential memory-safety scope. Our evaluation on a dataset of known vulnerabilities demonstrates that UnsafeChecker 

significantly outperforms state-of-the-art tools, detecting 36 out of 53 ground-truth bugs with 51.6% alert-level precision. Additionally, UnsafeChecker successfully discovered 114 previously unknown bugs in popular crates from crates.io, with 45 of them confirmed and 27 fixed by devel-opers. 

References 

[1] Luca Ardito, Luca Barbato, Marco Castelluccio, Riccardo Coppola, Calixte Denizet, Sylvestre Ledru, and Michele Valsesia. 2020. rust-code-analysis: A Rust library to analyze and extract maintainability information from source codes. SoftwareX 12 (2020), 100635. doi:10.1016/j.softx.2020.100635 [2] Vytautas Astrauskas, Aurel Bílý, Jonáš Fiala, Zachary Grannan, Christoph Matheja, Peter Müller, Federico Poli, and Alexander J. Summers. 2022. The Prusti Project: Formal Verification for&nbsp;Rust. In NASA Formal Methods: 14th International Symposium, NFM 2022, Pasadena, CA, USA, May 24–27, 2022, Proceedings (Pasadena, CA, USA). Springer-Verlag, Berlin, Heidelberg, 88–108. doi:10.1007/978-3-031-06773-0_5 [3] Vytautas Astrauskas, Christoph Matheja, Federico Poli, Peter Müller, and Alexander J. Summers. 2020. How do programmers use unsafe rust? Proc. ACM Program. Lang. 4, OOPSLA, Article 136 (Nov. 2020), 27 pages. doi:10.1145/ 3428204 [4] Yechan Bae, Youngsuk Kim, Ammar Askar, Jungwon Lim, and Taesoo Kim. 2021. Rudra: Finding Memory Safety Bugs in Rust at the Ecosystem Scale. In Proceedings of the ACM SIGOPS 28th Symposium on Operating Systems Principles 

(Virtual Event, Germany) (SOSP ’21) . Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 84–99. doi:10.1145/ 3477132.3483570 [5] Twain Byrnes, Yoshiki Takashima, and Limin Jia. 2024. Automatically Enforcing Rust Trait Properties. In Verification, Model Checking, and Abstract Interpretation , Rayna Dimitrova, Ori Lahav, and Sebastian Wolff (Eds.). Springer Nature Switzerland, Cham, 210–223. [6] Chengjun Chen, Zhicong Zhang, Hongliang Tian, Shoumeng Yan, and Hui Xu. 2023. OOM-Guard: Towards Improving the Ergonomics of Rust OOM Handling via a Reservation-Based Approach. In Proceedings of the 31st ACM Joint European Software Engineering Conference and Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engineering (San Francisco, CA, USA) (ESEC/FSE 2023) . Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 733–744. doi:10.1145/3611643. 3616303 [7] Mohan Cui, Chengjun Chen, Hui Xu, and Yangfan Zhou. 2023. SafeDrop: Detecting Memory Deallocation Bugs of Rust Programs via Static Data-flow Analysis. ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol. 32, 4, Article 82 (may 2023), 21 pages. doi:10.1145/3542948 26 Xizhe Yin, Yaokun Zhang, Yang Feng, and Baowen Xu 

[8] Xavier Denis, Jacques-Henri Jourdan, and Claude Marché. 2022. Creusot: A&nbsp;Foundry for&nbsp;the&nbsp;Deductive Verification of&nbsp;Rust Programs. In Formal Methods and Software Engineer-ing: 23rd International Conference on Formal Engineering Methods, ICFEM 2022, Madrid, Spain, October 24–27, 2022, Proceedings (Madrid, Spain). Springer-Verlag, Berlin, Heidelberg, 90–105. doi:10.1007/978-3-031-17244-1_6 [9] Zachary Grannan, Aurel Bílý, Jonáš Fiala, Jasper Geer, Markus de Medeiros, Peter Müller, and Alexander J. Summers. 2025. Place Capability Graphs: A General-Purpose Model of Rust’s Ownership and Borrowing Guarantees. Proc. ACM Program. Lang. 9, OOPSLA2, Article 344 (2025), 28 pages. doi:10.1145/3763122 [10] Son Ho, Aymeric Fromherz, and Jonathan Protzenko. 2024. Sound Borrow-Checking for Rust via Symbolic Semantics. 

Proc. ACM Program. Lang. 8, ICFP, Article 251 (2024), 29 pages. doi:10.1145/3674640 [11] Ralf Jung, Hoang-Hai Dang, Jeehoon Kang, and Derek Dreyer. 2019. Stacked borrows: an aliasing model for Rust. 

Proc. ACM Program. Lang. 4, POPL, Article 41 (Dec. 2019), 32 pages. doi:10.1145/3371109 [12] Ralf Jung, Jacques-Henri Jourdan, Robbert Krebbers, and Derek Dreyer. 2018. RustBelt: Securing the Foundations of the Rust Programming Language. Proc. ACM Program. Lang. 2, POPL, Article 66 (Dec. 2018), 34 pages. doi:10.1145/ 3158154 [13] Andrea Lattuada, Travis Hance, Chanhee Cho, Matthias Brun, Isitha Subasinghe, Yi Zhou, Jon Howell, Bryan Parno, and Chris Hawblitzel. 2023. Verus: Verifying Rust Programs using Linear Ghost Types (extended version). arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.05491 (2023). [14] Huan Li, Bei Wang, Xing Hu, and Xin Xia. 2025. Safe4U: Identifying Unsound Safe Encapsulations of Unsafe Calls in Rust using LLMs. Proc. ACM Softw. Eng. 2, ISSTA, Article ISSTA021 (June 2025), 24 pages. doi:10.1145/3728890 [15] Wei Li, Dongjie He, Yujiang Gui, Wenguang Chen, and Jingling Xue. 2024. A Context-Sensitive Pointer Analysis Framework for Rust and Its Application to Call Graph Construction. In Proceedings of the 33rd ACM SIGPLAN Inter-national Conference on Compiler Construction (Edinburgh, United Kingdom) (CC 2024) . Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 60–72. doi:10.1145/3640537.3641574 [16] Zhuohua Li, Jincheng Wang, Mingshen Sun, and John C.S. Lui. 2021. MirChecker: Detecting Bugs in Rust Programs via Static Analysis. In Proceedings of the 2021 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security 

(Virtual Event, Republic of Korea) (CCS ’21) . Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 2183–2196. doi:10.1145/3460120.3484541 [17] Per Lindgren, Nils Fitinghoff, and Jorge Aparicio. 2019. Cargo-call-stack Static Call-stack Analysis for Rust. In 2019 IEEE 17th International Conference on Industrial Informatics (INDIN) , Vol. 1. 1169–1176. doi:10.1109/INDIN41052.2019. 8972088 [18] Vikram Nitin, Anne Mulhern, Sanjay Arora, and Baishakhi Ray. 2023. Yuga: Automatically Detecting Lifetime Anno-tation Bugs in the Rust Language. arXiv:2310.08507 [cs.SE] https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.08507 [19] Miguel Ojeda et al. 2021. Rust for Linux: The path to safe systems programming. Linux Kernel Documentation (2021). https://www.kernel.org/doc/html/latest/rust/index.html [20] Wanrong Ouyang and Baojian Hua. 2021. ′R: Towards Detecting and Understanding Code-Document Violations in Rust. In 2021 IEEE International Symposium on Software Reliability Engineering Workshops (ISSREW) . 189–197. doi:10. 1109/ISSREW53611.2021.00063 [21] Jeff Vander Stoep and Stephen Hines. 2021. Rust in the Android platform. Google Security Blog. https://security. googleblog.com/2021/04/rust-in-android-platform.html [22] The MIRAI Developers. 2024. MIRAI: A Rust mid-level intermediate representation abstract interpreter. https:// github.com/facebookexperimental/MIRAI. Accessed: 2025-06-20. [23] The Rust Project. 2025. Miri: An Undefined Behavior Interpreter for Rust. GitHub repository. https://github.com/rust-lang/miri [24] The Rust Project. 2025. The Rust Programming Language . Rust Project. https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/ [25] The Rust Project. 2025. The Rust Programming Language. GitHub repository. https://github.com/rust-lang/rust [26] The Rust Project. 2025. The Rust Reference . Rust Project. https://doc.rust-lang.org/reference/behavior-considered-undefined.html [27] Neven Villani, Johannes Hostert, Derek Dreyer, and Ralf Jung. 2025. Tree Borrows. Proc. ACM Program. Lang. 9, PLDI, Article 188 (2025), 24 pages. doi:10.1145/3735592 [28] Hui Xu, Zhuangbin Chen, Mingshen Sun, Yangfan Zhou, and Michael R. Lyu. 2021. Memory-Safety Challenge Con-sidered Solved? An In-Depth Study with All Rust CVEs. ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol. 31, 1, Article 3 (Sept. 2021), 25 pages. doi:10.1145/3466642 [29] Yichi Zhang, Zixi Liu, Yang Feng, and Baowen Xu. 2024. Leveraging Large Language Model to Assist Detecting Rust Code Comment Inconsistency. In Proceedings of the 39th IEEE/ACM International Conference on Automated Software Engineering (Sacramento, CA, USA) (ASE ’24) . Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 356–366. doi:10.1145/3691620.3695010 UnsafeChecker: Finding Soundness Bugs in Rust Safe Abstractions 27 

[30] Ziyi Zhang, Boqin Qin, Yilun Chen, Linhai Song, and Yiying Zhang. 2020. VRLifeTime – An IDE Tool to Avoid Concurrency and Memory Bugs in Rust. In Proceedings of the 2020 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Com-munications Security (Virtual Event, USA) (CCS ’20) . Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 2085–2087. doi:10.1145/3372297.3420024