Title: IDORacle: Template-Guided SQL-Sink Mediation for Object-Level Authorization in Java Applications

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2609.12426v1

Published Time: Mon, 14 Sep 2026 00:31:23 GMT

Number of Pages: 16

Markdown Content:
# IDORacle: Template-Guided SQL-Sink Mediation for Object-Level Authorization in Java Applications 

Yuewantong Song a,1 , Guanhang Shi b,c,1 , Yin Cai b,c , Changhui Wang b,c , Jin Wei b,c , Ping Chen c, ∗, Lei Shi d, Jiangxing Wu a,c 

> aSchool of Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence, Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou, China
> bSchool of Computer Science, Fudan University, Shanghai, China
> cInstitute of Big Data, Fudan University, Shanghai, China
> dSchool of Cyber Science and Engineering, Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou, China

Abstract 

Insecure Direct Object Reference (IDOR), frequently modeled as Broken Object-Level Authorization (BOLA), remains prevalent in Java database applications. The root cause is an architectural disconnect between identity and authorization checks enforced at the Controller or Service layer and the underlying SQL execution layer, which performs object-level operations based solely on resource identifiers. Existing research predominantly addresses detection of such vulnerabilities in source code, leaving a gap in low-intrusion runtime defense solutions for legacy Java-SQL applications. This paper presents IDORacle, a template-guided SQL-sink interception and rewriting framework designed to mitigate horizontal privilege escalation at runtime. IDORacle propagates authenticated identity contexts across HTTP requests, asynchronous tasks, and data-access boundaries via a server-side trace identifier. At the MyBatis /JDBC boundary, it extracts SQL templates and computes dual fingerprints, performing a one-time template-level analysis to generate reusable mediation plans. During instance execution, the framework combines runtime subject context, AST structures, table metadata, and cached authorization proofs to permit, rewrite, or block each SQL operation. IDORacle supports direct ownership predicate injection, join-derived ownership guards, probe-based authorization for group-owned resources, role-sensitive state-transition checks, and sensitive-column mediation. This guard taxonomy avoids the unsound assumption that all authorization failures reduce to a single row predicate. To contain overhead in production environments, IDORacle architecturally decouples template-level analysis from instance-level caching. A dedicated Java-SQL benchmark suite is constructed to evaluate the framework against diverse IDOR scenarios grounded in real-world CVE reports. Experimental results demonstrate that IDORacle prevents horizontal authorization violations with a worst-case guard latency of 0.17 ms. Its redundancy-aware optimization reduces average per-instance overhead by over 90% (to 0.017 ms) for hot SQL templates, bridging the gap between detection-phase BOLA analysis and practical, low-overhead runtime enforcement. 

Keywords: Insecure direct object reference, Broken object-level authorization, SQL-sink mediation, Runtime authorization enforcement, Java applications 

1. Introduction 

Broken access control remains one of the most persistent classes of web-application security failures. In the OWASP Top 10:2025, Broken Access Control retains its ranking as the leading application-security risk (OWASP Foundation, 2021, 2025; MITRE Corporation, 2026a). In the OWASP API Secu-rity Top 10 2023, Broken Object Level Authorization (BOLA) is listed as API1:2023, reflecting the broad attack surface cre-ated when APIs expose object identifiers through URLs, re-quest bodies, and API parameters without enforcing object-level authorization checks (OWASP Foundation, 2023a). In-            

> ∗Corresponding author.
> Email addresses: sywt149@gs.zzu.edu.cn (Yuewantong Song),
> guanhang@bu.edu (Guanhang Shi), ycai25@m.fudan.edu.cn (Yin Cai),
> changhuiwang25@m.fudan.edu.cn (Changhui Wang),
> j_wei@fudan.edu.cn (Jin Wei), pchen@fudan.edu.cn (Ping Chen),
> shilei@zzu.edu.cn (Lei Shi), ndscwjx@126.com (Jiangxing Wu)
> 1Yuewantong Song and Guanhang Shi contributed equally to this work.

secure Direct Object Reference (IDOR) is a concrete instanti-ation of this problem: an authenticated user substitutes an ob-ject identifier—such as an order ID, job ID, tenant ID, or user ID—and the server omits verification that the referenced object falls within the user’s authorized scope (MITRE Corporation, 2026b; PortSwigger Web Security Academy, 2026a,b). Unlike injection vulnerabilities, IDOR is a semantic vulnerability. An HTTP request may be syntactically valid, the SQL statement may be well-formed, and the authenticated user may be permitted to invoke the endpoint, yet the concrete database object accessed by the backend may belong to another user, tenant, or group. Correctness therefore depends on application-specific authorization invariants rather than on input syntax (Felmetsger et al., 2010; Pellegrino and Balzarotti, 2014; Wang et al., 2026). Object-level authorization cannot be addressed as a pure input-sanitization problem; it must be enforced at the layer where subjects, objects, and backend operations converge. A substantial body of research has investigated static anal-arXiv:2609.12426v1 [cs.CR] 11 Sep 2026 ysis, directed fuzzing, and runtime observation to detect BOLA and missing owner-check vulnerabilities in web applications (Huang et al., 2024; Liu et al., 2025a,b; Dharmaadi et al., 2025; Zhang et al., 2025). These detection-oriented approaches e ff ec-tively identify whether a vulnerable endpoint exists, yet they operate within a testing-phase paradigm. In enterprise envi-ronments, legacy codebases frequently contain large numbers of endpoints in which authorization logic is interleaved with business SQL. Even when a scanner successfully flags a miss-ing ownership check, retrofitting authorization into monolithic legacy services is error-prone and time-consuming. A deploy-able, low-intrusion runtime prevention mechanism is therefore needed as a complementary last line of defense. A natural enforcement point is the database access bound-ary. Prior work has explored fine-grained access control through query rewriting, authorization views, row-level security, and middleware mediation (Rizvi et al., 2004; Chaud-huri et al., 2007; Mehta et al., 2017; Eykholt et al., 2017; PostgreSQL Global Development Group, 2026; Microsoft, 2025; Zhang et al., 2022). These mechanisms establish that SQL-level mediation is both security-relevant and practical. However, applying them directly to Java web stacks exposes a critical semantic gap: legacy Java applications enforce au-thentication and role checks in filters, annotations, controllers, or service methods, while MyBatis or JDBC mappers execute SQL statements using only resource identifiers. The authorized subject identity is therefore separated from the SQL sink that commits the database operation. This paper addresses this deployment gap by studying runtime prevention of horizontal Java-SQL authorization vio-lations, where an authenticated low-privilege user attempts to read, update, delete, or trigger state changes on objects outside her authorized scope—the core semantics of IDOR /BOLA (OWASP Foundation, 2023c,b). The primary goal is not to replace framework-level authentication, RBAC, or ABAC (Sandhu et al., 1996; Hu et al., 2014), but to add a last-mile SQL-sink reference monitor that complements existing checks by requiring su ffi cient object-level evidence before protected SQL instances reach the database. Realizing this goal surfaces four challenges. First, authori-zation evidence is fragmented: ownership semantics vary widely across tables, ranging from direct ownership columns (e.g., user_id ) to derivation via multi-hop joins, tenant groupings, or dynamic states. Second, SQL-sink enforcement must be semantics-aware; uniformly appending AND user_id = ? would disrupt dictionary tables, administrator opera-tions, and legitimate cross-user workflows. Third, runtime enforcement must be e ffi cient for production services, where SQL statements execute inside loops, scheduled jobs, or asyn-chronous tasks, making per-instance full parsing prohibitively costly. Fourth, credible evaluation requires paired benign and adversarial traces covering diverse ownership patterns, subquery-shaped bypasses, and performance stress cases. To address these challenges, we present IDORacle , atemplate-guided runtime prevention framework for Java-SQL IDOR vulnerabilities. IDORacle places a lightweight media-tion layer at MyBatis /JDBC-style SQL sinks. At application entry, it propagates the authenticated subject context via a server-side trace identifier. At the data-access boundary, it separates template planning from instance mediation : a SQL template is parsed, normalized, and compiled into a reusable mediation plan once, while per-execution work is limited to context binding, resource-key extraction, proof lookup, and guard evaluation. Guard types cover direct ownership predicates, join-derived ownership, group /tenant membership probes, role-sensitive state transitions, and sensitive-column policies, avoiding the unsound assumption that all authorization failures reduce to a single row predicate. This paper makes the following contributions: 

• Template-guided SQL-sink reference monitor. IDO-Racle introduces a low-intrusion reference monitor at the database access boundary that binds trusted subject context to SQL executions. By separating template-level planning from instance-level mediation, it reuses authorization plans across normalized SQL fingerprints and enforces checks on runtime context and policy metadata for each execution. 

• Heterogeneous guard model for object-level authori-zation. IDORacle defines a guard taxonomy covering direct ownership, derived ownership, group /tenant membership, role /state policy, and sensitive-column policy. This model supports diverse authorization semantics within a unified declarative configuration, complementing existing controller- and service-layer checks. 

• Benchmark design and empirical evaluation. We construct a dedicated Java-SQL IDOR benchmark grounded in real-world CVE reports to evaluate the framework across diverse ownership patterns. Results demonstrate that IDORacle prevents all tested horizontal privilege escalation attempts with zero false positives. The redundancy-aware caching mechanism reduces average overhead by over 90% (to 0.017 ms) for hot SQL templates, with a worst-case latency of 0.17 ms. 

2. Background 

2.1. Scoping the Defense: BOLA, BFLA, and BOPLA 

Broken access control is a broad category. For this pa-per, three subcategories are especially relevant. Broken Object-Level Authorization concerns whether the authenticated subject is allowed to access the concrete object referenced by a request. BOLA is the API-security formulation of IDOR: a user may be allowed to call an endpoint, but not allowed to access the ob-ject identified by the supplied parameter (OWASP Foundation, 2023a; MITRE Corporation, 2026b). This is usually a horizon-tal authorization problem when users with similar roles access one another’s objects. 

Broken Function-Level Authorization concerns whether a subject is allowed to invoke a function or endpoint at all. BFLA is commonly associated with role hierarchies, adminis-trator functions, and missing function-level checks (OWASP 2Foundation, 2023c). A user invoking an administrator-only endpoint is therefore a function-level or vertical authorization problem, even if the SQL statement later touches ordinary rows. Broken Object Property-Level Authorization concerns whether a subject is allowed to access or modify particular properties of an otherwise accessible object, such as passwords, tokens, phone numbers, addresses, or internal status fields (OWASP Foundation, 2023b). This distinction matters for system design. A SQL-sink defense is well-positioned for BOLA /IDOR because the SQL statement exposes the target table, operation, predicate, and bound object identifiers immediately before database execu-tion. By contrast, a pure SQL-layer mechanism cannot fully infer whether a route is administrator-only without additional route-permission evidence. Similarly, property-level authori-zation may require column policies rather than row ownership predicates. IDORacle therefore treats horizontal object-level authorization as its primary target and handles function-level and property-level cases only when su ffi cient evidence can be carried to the SQL boundary. 

2.2. The Architectural Root Cause of Java-SQL IDOR 

Java web applications commonly distribute authorization logic across multiple layers. Authentication may be enforced in a servlet filter or gateway. Coarse permission checks may be implemented using annotations, route rules, Shiro, Spring Security, or custom interceptors. Business-specific ownership checks may appear in service methods. Finally, MyBatis XML mappers, annotation-based SQL, or JDBC calls execute con-crete SQL statements. This separation is useful for engineering modularity, but it also introduces a semantic gap: the layer that knows the current subject may not be the layer that observes the concrete database object. To illustrate why a single hard-coded fix is insu ffi cient, con-sider the two vulnerable scenarios shown below:                   

> // [Scenario A] Direct Ownership (Easy) Controller : requireLogin () Mapper : SELECT *FROM t_order WHERE id =?// Missing: AND user_id = {curr_user} // [Scenario B] Join-Derived (Complex) Controller : requireLogin () Mapper : SELECT *FROM t_order_item WHERE item_id =?// Missing: Requires JOIN t_order ON ... // AND t_order.user_id = {curr_user}

In both scenarios, the endpoint authenticates the user and the SQL selects a valid row, but no component verifies that the referenced resource belongs to the current user. The bug is not a missing login check; it is a missing object-level invari-ant. A further complication arises from the widespread use of database connection pools (e.g., HikariCP, Druid) in Java en-terprise applications. Because all application users share the same database credentials, the underlying DBMS has no vis-ibility into the end-user identity associated with each query, making native enforcement of user-specific constraints infea-sible without complex session-variable manipulations in legacy configurations. The persistence of IDOR directly follows from this hetero-geneity of ownership semantics. While Scenario A can be fixed by injecting a simple user_id predicate, Scenario B derives ownership indirectly. Furthermore, some resources may belong to a tenant rather than a user, and administrative endpoints may bypass these checks entirely. These cases demonstrate that hor-izontal authorization cannot be handled by a naive, one-size-fits-all row predicate. 

2.3. From Detection to Runtime Enforcement 

Existing work on BOLA and missing owner-check vulner-abilities spans static analysis, directed fuzzing, and di ff erential testing (Huang et al., 2024; Liu et al., 2025a,b; Zhang et al., 2025). These approaches e ff ectively identify whether a vulner-able endpoint exists, but they operate within a testing-phase paradigm: scanners flag missing checks before deployment, leaving legacy production codebases unprotected. Even when a scanner successfully identifies a flaw, retrofitting authorization constraints across a large monolithic service is error-prone and time-consuming. Database-level mechanisms such as row-level security (RLS) and query-rewriting frameworks (Rizvi et al., 2004; PostgreSQL Global Development Group, 2026; Mehta et al., 2017) establish that SQL-layer mediation is feasible, but they assume a one-to-one mapping between database users and ap-plication users—an assumption broken by the connection-pool architecture described in Section 2.2. Furthermore, they do not bind Java runtime subject context to individual SQL instances across asynchronous boundaries, and they cannot express the heterogeneous ownership policies (direct, derived, group, and role-sensitive) found in real Java applications. These two gaps together define the design space for IDORa-cle: a runtime enforcement layer that mediates SQL executions against authenticated subject context, operates with no source-code changes to legacy services, and amortizes the cost of pol-icy evaluation through ahead-of-time template planning rather than per-query dynamic rewriting. Detailed comparison with related detection and enforcement systems is provided in Sec-tion 9. 

3. Threat Model 

3.1. Attacker Capabilities and Objectives 

The adversary is an authenticated low privilege user of a Java database application. The adversary can send ordinary HTTP or RPC requests and freely modify request controlled identifiers, including path variables, query parameters, request body fields, and RPC arguments. These identifiers may later be bound to SQL statements as business keys. The adversary aims to read, update, delete, or trigger state changes on objects out-side their authorized scope. The adversary may exploit missing owner checks, incomplete service validation, controller permis-sion omissions, subquery shaped SQL paths, or inconsistent treatment of group and tenant resources. The adversary does 3Input Request         

> (HTTP/RPC)
> Vanilla SQL App
> IDORacle
> e.g. SELECT * FROM sys_dict_type WHERE dict_id=?
> Fragmented Authorization
> Controller/ Service checks may be missing or inconsistent
> Raw SQL Execution Unauthorized DB Access
> Query reaches the DB without ownership constraints
> IDOR succeeds!
> Phase 1: Context-Aware Rewrite
> Context Propagation Template Planning Guard Construction
> Phase 2: Runtime Authorization Oracle Protected DB Access IDOR prevented!
> Audit Log
> decision, context, SQL, resource IDs, outcome
> Guard Matching Runtime Validation Redundancy-Aware Optimization
> ALLOW
> REWRITE
> BLOCK
> AUDIT
> Alice / USER GET /system/dict/type/list?id=2
> DB Result: Tenant B data
> Output Response: HTTP 200 OK cross-tenant data returned
> DB Result: 0 Rows
> Output Response: HTTP 404/[] no cross-tenant data returned

Figure 1: Overview of IDORacle comparing the Vanilla SQL App execution path with the template guided mediation path. 

not have database credentials, cannot directly modify the pol-icy metadata store, and cannot forge authenticated identities or server trace bindings. 

3.2. Defender Capabilities and Assumptions 

The defender controls the Java application deployment, the SQL interception component, and the authorization metadata used by IDORacle. The defender can recover authenticated subject context from the existing security framework, register table and column policies, and deploy the system in shadow or enforce mode. The defender does not assume that all con-trollers, services, or mapper SQL statements are correctly pro-tected. The trusted computing base consists of the entry context extractor, the context store, the SQL hook, the metadata store, the mediator, as well as the underlying JVM environment and the database engine. These components are assumed to pre-serve the integrity of the interception agent and SQL execution. IDORacle assumes that the upstream identity propagation in-frastructure is trustworthy and uncompromised. 

4. Methodology 

4.1. Overview 

As illustrated in Figure 1, the architectural vulnerability emerges when an authenticated user, such as Alice, submits a data retrieval request triggering an underlying database query. Within the Vanilla SQL App execution path, fragmented authorization allows this request to bypass incomplete con-troller or service checks. Consequently, the raw SQL execution proceeds directly to the database without enforcing ownership constraints. This structural flaw leads to unauthorized database access, ultimately yielding an HTTP 200 OK response that exposes cross tenant data and signifies a successful IDOR attack. For the identical input request, the IDORacle execution path mitigates the vulnerability through a two phase template guided mediation pipeline. Phase 1 executes a context aware rewrite by binding the TraceID security context of the user and inter-cepting the query at the DAO and JDBC boundary to generate a secured SQL candidate. Phase 2 then engages the runtime authorization oracle to evaluate this candidate via guard match-ing, runtime validation, and redundancy aware optimization. The oracle outputs a definitive action, selecting among allow, rewrite, block, or audit decisions, and records the outcome in an audit log. By enforcing strict ownership boundaries prior to execution, this pipeline guarantees protected database access. The database evaluates the secured query to yield zero rows, compelling the application to return a safe HTTP 404 or empty list response, thereby preventing cross tenant data leakage and neutralizing the IDOR attempt. The IDORacle design does not replace existing framework level authentication or role authorization. Instead, it treats these mechanisms as evidence sources and revalidates the concrete object level operation at the SQL sink. This positioning is par-ticularly relevant for legacy Java applications, where the con-troller may encode route permissions, the service may apply partial business checks, and the SQL mapper ultimately exe-cutes the database operation. 

4.2. Phase 1: Context-Aware Rewrite 

Phase 1 establishes the trusted identity anchor for each SQL execution and compiles a reusable mediation plan before any concrete parameter values are bound. It comprises three sequential steps that correspond to the three operational lines shown in Figure 1: binding the TraceID security context, intercepting the SQL at the Data Access Object (DAO) /JDBC boundary, and generating the secured SQL candidate that is forwarded to Phase 2 for evaluation. 

Context propagation. A SQL instance can be mediated only if it is bound to the authenticated subject that triggered it. IDORa-cle therefore propagates a server-side identity record rather than trusting user-controlled request parameters. At the application entry point, the system extracts the authenticated principal and 4stores a compact identity record (Eq. (1)): 

ctx:{traceId} 7 → { userId , role , tenantId ,

sessionAttr , policyVersion }. (1) Only the identity record is propagated through Mapped Diag-nostic Context (MDC), Remote Procedure Call (RPC) attach-ments, message headers, or scheduled-task wrappers to reli-ably bridge the semantic gap across thread boundaries; this fol-lows the general practice of carrying opaque execution context rather than trusting user-supplied identity fields (World Wide Web Consortium, 2021). The full identity record remains in the trusted server-side store. At the SQL sink, the mediator first checks a short-lived local cache and then falls back to the shared context store. Missing or expired context is treated as a fail-closed condition unless the callsite is explicitly registered as a system task. This rule prevents silently allowing attacker-triggered SQL statements when context propagation fails. 

Template planning. IDORacle separates SQL-template analy-sis from per-instance mediation. The SQL hook intercepts a pa-rameterized SQL template at the DAO /JDBC boundary before concrete values are bound and constructs a template fingerprint 

hT (Eq. (2)): 

hT = H(mapperId , normalizedAst , commandType ,

parameterMappings , callsiteHash , policyVersion ).

(2) Including the mapper identifier, parameter mapping, callsite hash, and policy version prevents unrelated SQL statements with similar Abstract Syntax Tree (AST) shapes from sharing an authorization plan. This strict fingerprinting reduces the risk that template plans are inadvertently shared across semantically distinct SQL statements or invalidated policy versions. If the fingerprint is unseen, the planner normalizes the SQL, parses its AST, extracts command type, tables, joins, subqueries, selected or updated columns, and predicate-related parameter positions, and then binds these facts to policy metadata. The output is a TemplatePlan (summarized in Table 1), which is cached locally and can be replicated to a distributed cache in multi-instance deployments. Template planning is the principal performance optimiza-tion. Java applications often execute a small number of SQL templates many times in loops, scheduled jobs, or branch-heavy business logic. IDORacle therefore performs expensive pars-ing, normalization, table classification, and policy binding once per template and keeps per-execution work limited to identity record binding, parameter extraction, proof lookup, and guard-specific mediation. 

Guard construction. The planner attaches guards to a SQL template according to the metadata of the touched tables, columns, and operations. A guard describes how authorization should be established for a protected database object. To minimize deployment overhead, these guards and associated metadata are defined via a centralized, declarative configura-tion (e.g., YAML or JSON) maintained by the defender. This                                      

> Table 1: Main fields in a TemplatePlan.
> Field Description
> templateHash Fingerprint of the normalized SQL tem-plate and its execution context.
> operation SQL command type, such as SELECT, UPDATE, DELETE, or INSERT.
> tables Database tables touched by the SQL AST, including subqueries.
> columns Selected, updated, or predicate-related columns.
> riskClass Public table, direct ownership, derived ownership, group ownership, state transi-tion, sensitive column, or admin-only ac-cess.
> guards Metadata-bound guards that must be eval-uated for the template.
> resourceKeys Parameter positions or expressions used to derive protected resources.
> action Planned mediation action: allow, rewrite, probe, block, mask, or audit.
> Table 2: Guard types used for Java-SQL IDOR mediation.
> Guard Purpose
> Direct ownership Adds or verifies an owner predicate when the target table has an explicit owner column. Derived ownership Derives authorization through a parent table, foreign-key relation, or configured join path. Group /tenant mem-bership Resolves group or tenant membership through amembership table or resource probe. Role /state policy Checks actor role, forbidden self-approval, or allowed state transition. Sensitive-column policy Blocks, masks, or audits unauthorized access to protected columns. Public table Allows explicitly registered dictionary or configuration tables. Admin-only policy Requires administrator or privileged-route evidence for protected operations.

centralized approach eliminates the need to scatter redundant authorization checks across various services, ensuring easier auditing and uniform enforcement. Table 2 lists the guard types used by IDORacle. A table can carry multiple guards. For example, an order table may use direct ownership for ordinary user operations and an admin-only guard for back-o ffi ce operations. A tenant-membership table may combine group membership and state-transition guards. A user table may combine direct ownership with sensitive-column mediation. Table 3 illustrates represen-tative policy metadata entries. The guards are deliberately ex-plicit: IDORacle does not infer ownership from arbitrary col-umn names alone, because such inference would create both false positives and unsafe bypasses. 5Table 3: Examples of authorization metadata. 

Object Policy metadata 

t_order Direct owner column user_id .

t_order_item Derived owner via order_id →

t_order.id .

xxl_job_info Group owner via job_group .

sys_user_tenant Role /state guard for tenant approval. 

sys_user.password Sensitive column blocked for non-admin users. 

t_sku_dict Public dictionary table. 

4.3. Phase 2: Runtime Authorization Oracle 

Phase 2 evaluates the secured SQL candidate produced by Phase 1 against the runtime identity record and bound parame-ters, issuing one of four decisions: A llow , R ewrite , B lock , or Audit (shown in Figure 1). The oracle comprises three concur-rent sub-components—guard matching, runtime validation, and redundancy-aware optimization—formalized in Algorithm 1. 

Guard matching. At runtime, the instance mediator evaluates the TemplatePlan against the current identity record and bound parameters. If the SQL template is registered as a public ta-ble access, the mediator issues an A llow decision immediately. If the template touches a protected table, the mediator extracts concrete resource keys according to the plan and evaluates the attached guards. For direct ownership, the guard inserts a trusted owner pred-icate using the SQL AST rather than string concatenation:  

> SELECT * FROM t_order WHERE id = ?
> ⇒
> SELECT * FROM t_order WHERE id = ? AND user_id = ?

The appended parameter is bound from ctx:{traceId} , not from the attacker-controlled request. UPDATE and DELETE statements are constrained in the same way so that unauthorized rows are not modified. For derived ownership, the mediator uses metadata to con-nect a child table to an owner-bearing parent table. When safe SQL rewriting is possible—typically in single-table queries or straightforward joins—it inserts an EXISTS predicate: 

> SELECT * FROM t_order_item i WHERE i.id = ?
> ⇒
> SELECT * FROM t_order_item i WHERE i.id = ? AND EXISTS (SELECT 1 FROM t_order o WHERE o.id = i.order_id AND o.user_id = ?)

However, AST rewriting can inadvertently alter query seman-tics. If the SQL dialect, complex aggregations ( GROUP BY ), unions ( UNION ), or certain Data Manipulation Language (DML) structures render rewriting unsafe, the mediator gracefully falls back to a proof query (P robe -then -A llow ) under the same re-quest trace. For group- or tenant-owned resources, the mediator first re-solves the protected resource and then checks membership. A job operation, for example, may receive only job_id , while authorization is defined over job_group . The mediator re-solves the group and verifies membership before the original SQL is permitted. 

Runtime validation. Not every protected operation can be ex-pressed as row ownership. A tenant-join approval may require the actor to be an administrator of the tenant and not the appli-cant whose request is being approved. A user-list query may be legitimate for ordinary users but unsafe if it returns password hashes, tokens, phone numbers, or addresses. IDORacle han-dles these cases with role /state and sensitive-column guards. A role /state guard checks the actor role, the protected re-source, the old state, and the requested transition before the DML statement is executed. When the condition can be ex-pressed safely in SQL, it is compiled into an EXISTS predicate. Otherwise, the mediator issues a proof query and blocks the update if the proof fails. A sensitive-column guard inspects the SELECT projection and applies the configured action: block, rewrite to NULL , mask the column, or audit. For example: 

> SELECT user_id, username, password, mobile FROM sys_user
> ⇒
> SELECT user_id, username, NULL AS password, CONCAT(’***’, RIGHT(mobile, 4)) AS mobile FROM sys_user

High-risk columns such as passwords and tokens are blocked by default unless route and role evidence explicitly authorize the access. 

Redundancy-aware optimization. The result of each guard evaluation is cached as an authorization proof hP (Eq. (3)): 

hP = H(traceId , subjectHash , templateHash ,

operation , resourceKey , policyVersion ). (3) The authorization proof records the decision, evidence source, resolved resource attributes, guard type, and expiration time. To balance performance and consistency in concurrent envi-ronments, authorization proofs are assigned a short time-to-live (TTL). Write operations trigger a best-e ff ort cache eviction for the a ff ected resource keys, while policy-version changes im-mediately invalidate all stale authorization proofs. This mech-anism is directly reflected in Algorithm 1 (lines 6–8), where a cache hit short-circuits guard evaluation entirely, eliminating redundant mediation for hot SQL templates that recur in loops, paginated queries, or scheduled tasks. 

Algorithm 1 SQL-Sink Mediation Logic                                                          

> Require: SQL template T; bound parameters B; identity record
> r
> Ensure: Mediated SQL AST, or a B lock decision 1: C←Load Context (r)2: if C=∅and ¬IsSystem Task (T)then
> 3: return Block {fail closed} 4: end if
> 5: P←Get OrCompile Plan (T)6: if P.riskClass =Public then
> 7: return Allow
> 8: end if
> 9: K←Extract Resource Key (B,P)10: hP←H(r,C,P,K)11: if Cache Has (hP)then
> 12: return Cache Get (hP)13: end if
> 14: D←Evaluate Guards (P.guards ,C,K)15: C ache Put (hP,D) {short TTL} 16: return D

64.4. Protected Database Access and Enforcement Outcomes 

The oracle decision produced by Phase 2 determines the ob-servable outcome at both the database layer and the application response layer, corresponding to the Protected DB Access box in Figure 1. When the identity record is bound and the Tem-platePlan carries a valid ownership-constrained SQL candidate, the database evaluates the rewritten statement and returns zero rows for unauthorized object references, compelling the appli-cation to return a safe HTTP 404 or an empty list response. No cross-tenant data is exposed, and the IDOR attempt is neutral-ized. Each decision is recorded in the audit log with the identity record, SQL fingerprint, guard type, and outcome timestamp. 

Operational modes. IDORacle supports two modes governing how oracle decisions are applied. In shadow mode , the framework records decisions and potential SQL di ff erences without altering application behavior; this mode is used to validate metadata configurations, estimate false-positive rates, and identify legitimate cross-object queries that require explicit policy exceptions prior to production enforcement. In 

enforce mode , the oracle decision is applied before the SQL statement reaches the database. An A llow decision permits the original SQL to execute unmodified. A R ewrite decision substitutes the original AST with the ownership-constrained SQL candidate, producing the zero-row database result and safe HTTP response illustrated in Figure 1. A B lock decision prevents database execution entirely. An Audit decision permits execution while recording a tamper-evident log entry. 

Fail-closed strategy. To ensure operational resilience, IDORa-cle adopts a fail-closed strategy for all critical error conditions. Missing identity record, absent policy metadata for protected tables, conflicting owner predicates, failed membership probes, and unauthorized sensitive-column accesses are all blocked by default rather than permitted. This design guarantees that un-certainty in the authorization state is resolved conservatively, preventing attacker-triggered SQL statements from executing silently when context propagation fails or metadata is incom-plete. 

Explicit exception management. Explicit allow rules are required for public dictionary tables, migration tasks, sched-uled system jobs, and administrator-only workflows. These exceptions are maintained in declarative metadata rather than in ad hoc code comments, ensuring that the policy configura-tion remains auditable and version-controlled. Original SQL comments are normalized and are not trusted as authorization evidence. When an audit comment is emitted, it carries only an opaque proof identifier; the corresponding evidence is stored exclusively in the trusted server-side channel, preventing comment-injection bypasses. 

5. Benchmark Design 

The benchmark is designed to evaluate whether SQL-level runtime mediation can prevent IDOR vulnerabilities when object-level authorization is missing, incomplete, or incon-sistently placed in Java application code. Instead of testing only whether an HTTP endpoint is reachable, each benchmark case follows the complete path from request to database e ff ect. A case therefore specifies the authenticated principal, the attacker-controllable request field, the SQL template issued by the application, the protected-table metadata, and the expected database and response-level outcomes. 

5.1. Design Goals 

The benchmark has three primary goals. First, it covers common object-level authorization failures in Java-SQL ap-plications, including unauthorized reads, updates, deletes, and batch operations. Second, it includes ownership patterns that cannot be handled by a single hard-coded predicate, such as ownership derived through a parent table, group membership, tenant membership, or a configured resolver relation. Third, it stresses the runtime cost of mediation by including repeated SQL templates, loop-generated mapper calls, and branch-heavy service paths. These goals allow the benchmark to measure both the security e ffi cacy of IDORacle and the practical benefit of its redundancy-aware optimization. 

5.2. Principals and Protected Objects 

The benchmark uses a compact but heterogeneous Java-SQL data model. The schemas cover users, orders, addresses, dictionary records, notices, scheduled jobs, job groups, job logs, tenants, and user-profile data. In total, the benchmark comprises comprehensive vulnerability scenarios synthesized from real-world CVE reports aff ecting open-source Java applications. The RuoYi-derived cases are grounded in public CVE and advisory records (National Vulnerability Database, 2025a,b,c,d,e,f,g,h; CVE Public Advisory Repository, 2025; RuoYi Project, 2026), while the additional XXL-Job and BootDo cases are grounded in their public vulnerability and project sources (National Vulnerability Database, 2023; XXL-JOB Project, 2026; CTFIOT Security, 2024; BootDo Project, 2026). The protected tables are selected to represent di ff erent authorization shapes. For example, sys_dict_type 

and sys_notice use direct ownership through create_by ;

datax_job_info uses direct ownership through a numeric 

user_id ; xxl_job_info uses group-derived ownership through job_group ; and sys_job_log uses resolver-style ownership because a log record must be linked back to an owner-bearing job record. The principal set contains at least two low-privilege users from di ff erent ownership domains and an administrator. This setup separates three behaviors: legitimate self-access, hori-zontal cross-user or cross-tenant access, and legitimate admin-istrative access. Each protected object is associated with the security-context field that should be used as authorization evi-dence, such as userId , username , role , or tenantId . The same metadata is used by the runtime oracle during evaluation, as summarized later in Table 5. 75.3. Paired Benign and Adversarial Traces 

Each functional scenario is encoded as a pair of traces. The benign trace uses a resource identifier that belongs to the au-thenticated principal and should preserve the original applica-tion behavior. The adversarial trace keeps the same princi-pal and endpoint but changes the identifier, transition target, or batch item to a resource owned by another user, group, or tenant. This paired construction is critical to demonstrate that IDORacle mitigates the vulnerability without introducing false positives that break legitimate workflows. The overview case follows this construction. Alice is au-thenticated as a normal user and sends the following request:  

> GET / system / dict / type / list ? id =2

The application issues the SQL template:        

> SELECT *FROM sys_dict_type WHERE dict_id =?

In the vanilla application, the query reaches the database without an ownership constraint and may return a dictionary record belonging to another user. Under IDORacle, the same SQL execution is mediated at the DAO /JDBC boundary. The secured SQL candidate adds the trusted ownership predicate:           

> SELECT *FROM sys_dict_type WHERE dict_id =?AND create_by =?

The additional value is derived from the server-side security context rather than from attacker-controlled request parameters. Therefore, the adversarial trace returns zero rows or a safe re-sponse such as HTTP 404 or an empty list, while the benign trace remains accessible. 

5.4. Case Families 

The benchmark contains four case families: 

Object-level IDOR cases. These cases evaluate the core threat. Horizontal read cases test whether a user can retrieve another user’s row by modifying an identifier in the request. Horizontal update and delete cases test whether the same ma-nipulation can modify or remove unauthorized rows. Batch cases model service code that iterates over a list of attacker-supplied identifiers and invokes the same mapper method re-peatedly. The expected protected behavior is either a rewritten SQL statement whose ownership predicate reduces the result or a ff ected rows to zero, or a B lock decision before database execution. 

Derived-ownership cases. These cases cover objects whose authorization evidence is not stored directly in the accessed table. Join-derived cases require the mediator to constrain the target row through a related parent table. Group-and tenant-derived cases require the oracle to validate whether the target group or tenant is in the current subject’s permission scope. Resolver cases require an EXISTS predicate or an equivalent resolver query to connect the accessed record to an owner-bearing table. These cases prevent the benchmark from overfitting to direct owner = subject predicates. 

Policy-boundary cases. These cases check whether the mediator distinguishes protected object resources from legitimate public or administrative accesses. Public dictionary or configuration tables should be allowed when they are not registered as protected objects. Administrator-only operations should be allowed only when the authenticated role satisfies the configured policy. Column-sensitive cases are retained as an extension for sensitive-field protection, but they are not the main focus of the overview because the central threat in this work is object-level IDOR rather than general data masking. 

Optimization stress cases. These cases expose redundant mediation work. They include paginated list queries that re-peatedly execute the same SQL template with di ff erent o ff sets, batch updates or deletes that invoke the same mapper method inside a loop, and switch-branch service paths where di ff er-ent actions reach the same protected table. These cases eval-uate whether template-plan reuse, metadata reuse, and request-local deduplication reduce repeated parsing, guard matching, and rewrite-decision generation without changing the security outcome. 

5.5. Expected Outcomes 

For each case, the benchmark defines both a database-level outcome and a response-level outcome. In the vanilla mode, an adversarial trace is expected to reach the database without an ownership constraint and may return or modify cross-user or cross-tenant data. In the protected mode, IDORacle produces one of four outcomes: A llow , R ewrite , B lock , or A udit . A benign trace should be allowed or rewritten without changing the legitimate result. An adversarial read should not return the unauthorized row. An adversarial update or delete should either aff ect zero rows after rewriting or be blocked before execution. An audit record should contain the identity record, subject con-text, SQL fingerprint, protected table, decision, and final out-come. This decoupled expected-outcome design separates security correctness from application presentation. Di ff erent Java appli-cations may translate an empty protected result into HTTP 404 ,an empty list, or a generic forbidden response. The benchmark therefore treats the absence of unauthorized data at the database level as the core security condition and records the concrete HTTP response as supporting evidence. 

5.6. Execution Modes and Measurements 

The benchmark is executed in three modes, designed to iso-late the performance impact of IDORacle’s core mechanisms: 

• NO_GUARD : SQL statements are executed as they would be in the vanilla application. This mode provides the vulnerable baseline and exposes the unauthorized database result for adversarial traces. 

• GUARD_NO_CACHE : Every guarded SQL statement goes through the full runtime oracle path, including SQL normalization, guard matching, metadata lookup, own-ership validation, and rewrite construction. This mode represents the worst-case protected execution path. 8Table 4: Implementation modules of IDORacle                 

> Module Technology Responsibility
> Guard Server Spring Boot Policy management and rewrite service SQL Rewriter JSqlParser SQL parsing and AST rewriting Java Agent Byte Buddy Runtime SQL interception Identity Layer Servlet /Shiro Hooks Identity extraction and propagation Rewrite Cache ConcurrentHashMap Rewrite decision reuse Observability UI React +Vite Visualization and benchmark control

• GUARD_WITH_CACHE : IDORacle enables redundancy-aware optimization and reuses decisions for repeated normalized SQL templates and repeated resource checks. This mode represents the common hot-template path in production Java applications. For every execution, the benchmark driver records the orig-inal SQL, the rewritten SQL when applicable, the oracle deci-sion, the a ff ected rows, the response class, the cache hit or miss status, and the processing time. These logs are used to com-pute security metrics—including successful attack prevention rate and false-positive rate—as well as performance metrics, including average overhead, maximum overhead, and cache ef-fectiveness. 

6. Implementation 

We implemented IDORacle as a low-intrusion Java-SQL runtime defense prototype. The prototype comprises approx-imately 5.8K lines of self-developed Java code, excluding third-party benchmark applications and framework dependen-cies, organized into two major components: (1) a backend policy engine ( ∼4.0K lines) for ownership metadata manage-ment, access-control decision-making, and SQL rewriting; and (2) a Java agent ( ∼1.8K lines) for runtime JDBC interception, identity propagation, and transparent SQL enforcement. Table 4 lists the six implementation modules. Concretely, the system exposes three deployment artifacts: a guard server, an in-process MyBatis interceptor for the evaluation testbed, and the Java agent for protecting external applications without source-code modification. The guard server is implemented in Spring Boot. It main-tains the runtime switch, identity record, guard decisions, eval-uation logs, and table-level ownership metadata. The metadata also supports administrator bypasses for cases where cross-user access is legitimate. For SQL interception inside the evaluation testbed, IDORa-cle uses a MyBatis StatementHandler.prepare interceptor. Before SQL reaches the database, the interceptor obtains the current identity record, parses the SQL with JSqlParser (JSql-Parser Project, 2026), detects the guarded table, and injects an ownership predicate into SELECT , UPDATE , and DELETE state-ments. For a direct ownership table, the original query is dynam-ically rewritten into a guarded query with an additional owner predicate, as shown below:               

> // Original SQL SELECT *FROM sys_notice WHERE notice_id =?// Rewritten Guarded SQL SELECT *FROM sys_notice WHERE notice_id =?AND create_by = currentUser

The injected value is derived from the server-side identity record rather than from attacker-controlled request parameters. Therefore, changing an object identifier in the HTTP request is insu ffi cient to bypass the guard. To support external applications, we implemented a Java agent. The agent instruments JDBC prepareStatement 

calls in common connection implementations, including MySQL JDBC and Druid. Before a candidate SQL statement is prepared, the agent checks whether the SQL operation and table match the configured metadata. If so, it sends the SQL and identity record to the guard server. The guard server returns one of three access-control decisions: ALLOW ,

REWRITE , or DENY . An ALLOW decision indicates that the target object belongs to the current user or is a public resource, requiring no modification. A REWRITE decision indicates that the table is protected and requires AST-level injection of the current user’s identity constraint. A DENY decision is issued when the required identity information is unavailable due to propagation failure, enforcing a fail-closed behavior that aborts the operation before database execution. To bridge the semantic gap between application-level iden-tities and JDBC executions in real-world systems, we imple-mented framework-specific identity extraction hooks for rep-resentative open-source enterprise systems, including RuoYi, BootDo, and XXL-Job (RuoYi Project, 2026; BootDo Project, 2026; XXL-JOB Project, 2026). By intercepting Shiro or cus-tom authentication filters, the extracted userId , username ,and roles are reliably bound to the identity record without mod-ifying legacy business code. For performance, the agent implements a rewrite-decision cache. The cache key contains the application name, identity record, and a fingerprint of the normalized SQL. This opti-mization ensures that repeated executions of high-frequency hot templates avoid redundant parsing and inter-process communi-cation overhead. 

7. Evaluation 

We evaluate IDORacle to assess its security e ffi cacy, prac-tical deployability, and runtime e ffi ciency through a series of empirical experiments. The evaluation addresses the following four distinct research questions: 

• RQ1 (Security E ff ectiveness): Does IDORacle prevent horizontal object reference violations across diverse Java 9[Vulnerable SQL]        

> UPDATE sys_dict_type SET dict_name =?WHERE dict_id =?

[IDORacle Rewrite]        

> UPDATE sys_dict_type SET dict_name =?WHERE dict_id =?AND create_by = ’alice’
> (a) RuoYi (CVE-2025-28407)

[Vulnerable Logic]   

> job =find ( jobId ); update ( job );

[IDORacle Check]   

> job =find ( jobId ); assert(userOwnsJobGroup); update ( job );
> (b) XXL-Job (CVE-2023-33779)

[Vulnerable SQL]    

> SELECT *FROM sys_user

[IDORacle Rewrite]    

> SELECT *FROM sys_user WHERE user_id = ?
> (c) BootDo (CNVD-C-2024-22302)
> Figure 2: Comparison of vulnerable database operations and IDORacle’s runtime mediation outcomes across three real-world vulnerabilities. Table 5: Evaluation resources and ownership assignments used in the real-world case study.

Resource Type Resource ID Resource Name Ownership Attribute Owner Related CVE 

Dictionary Type 9001 Alice Dictionary Type create_by=alice Alice CVE-2025-28407 9002 Bob Dictionary Type create_by=bob Bob CVE-2025-28407 Notice 9001 Alice Notice create_by=alice Alice CVE-2025-28412 9002 Bob Notice create_by=bob Bob CVE-2025-28412 Scheduled Job 9001 Alice Job create_by=alice Alice CVE-2025-28402 9002 Bob Job create_by=bob Bob CVE-2025-28402 

SQL scenarios without introducing false positives? (Sec-tion 7.2) 

• RQ2 (Practical Deployability): Can the framework in-tegrate with real world legacy Java web applications to mitigate documented CVEs? (Section 7.3) 

• RQ3 (Micro Level Performance): What is the latency overhead introduced by the SQL sink reference monitor and how e ff ective is the template caching mechanism? (Section 7.4) 

• RQ4 (End to End Impact): How does IDORacle a ff ect the end to end response latency of web endpoints under realistic operational conditions? (Section 7.5) 

7.1. Experimental Setup 

The prototype evaluation is conducted on a dedicated testbed utilizing the Spring Boot framework version 2.7 with MyBatis 3.5 and a MySQL 8.0 database management system. The underlying storage layer leverages HikariCP for connection pooling under a shared credential architecture. The hardware environment comprises an Intel Core i7 processor operating at 3.6 GHz paired with 16 GB of memory running an Ubuntu 20.04 long term support operating system. We evaluate and compare three operational configurations. The NO_GUARD 

configuration executes queries in their original state to establish the baseline database behavior. The GUARD_NO_CACHE 

configuration enforces the entire reference monitor validation flow including parsing and guard matching for every single database statement. The GUARD_WITH_CACHE config-uration activates the dual fingerprint template plan cache to eliminate redundant analytical overhead. 

7.2. RQ1: Security E ff ectiveness 

To evaluate the fundamental security e ffi cacy of IDORacle, we execute paired benign and adversarial execution traces across diverse object level authorization configurations. The experimental data reveals a structural vulnerability pattern in legacy applications where database mappers execute queries relying entirely on request supplied resource identifiers. We classify the evaluated data access paths into two structural paradigms consisting of direct ownership validation and complex derived relational validation. For the direct ownership paradigm represented by tables such as sys dict type and sys notice, the primary threat stems from simple parameter substitution. The baseline data demon-strates that an adversary can retrieve data belonging to other tenants without restriction. Under the IDORacle configuration, the framework dynamically intercepts the query at the database boundary and appends an explicit user identifier predicate to the abstract syntax tree structure. When Alice attempts an unau-thorized access targeting Bob, the injected constraint forces the database engine to evaluate an empty result set. The application subsequently translates this empty payload into a safe response class such as an HTTP 404 error or an empty data list, success-fully neutralizing the horizontal escalation attempt. For the derived relational validation paradigm where authorization evidence resides in secondary tables, the security risks expand significantly due to the absence of explicit owner columns in the primary target sink. IDORacle addresses this challenge by generating complex subqueries or executing the probe then allow fallback mechanism. The results confirm a one hundred percent attack prevention rate across all synthe-sized scenarios with zero false positives. Legitimate operations 10 CVE-2025-28407 Auth. (A→A) CVE-2025-28407 Unauth. (A→B) CVE-2025-28412 Auth. (A→A) CVE-2025-28412 Unauth. (A→B) CVE-2025-28402 Auth. (A→A) CVE-2025-28402 Unauth. (A→B)                 

> 020 40 60 80 100 120 140
> Latency (ms)
> Dictionary Type Notice Scheduled Job
> Configuration
> No guard Guard (no cache) Guard (with cache)
> Statistic
> Avg (label inside bar) Max (↑ label above bar)
> 12.2 9.9 5.9 5.0 8.7 7.3
> ↑88.8 ↑50.4 ↑41.2 ↑29.6 ↑55.8 ↑32.4
> 31.8 13.6 9.2 8.3 14.3 13.4
> ↑128.4 ↑55.0 ↑42.2 ↑30.2 ↑52.8 ↑48.4
> 25.8 11.1 8.4 8.1 13.1 12.8
> ↑76.0 ↑33.8 ↑36.6 ↑30.0 ↑43.6 ↑49.0

Figure 3: End to end request latency per execution mode across three RuoYi IDOR vulnerabilities reporting mean and maximum performance values. 

executed by true resource owners consistently pass validation without semantic distortion or data reduction. However, the evaluation also indicates that highly convoluted analytical structures containing deeply nested aggregations restrict safe rewrite options, requiring the mediator to degrade gracefully to standalone validation probes which demands optimization to sustain operational throughput. 

7.3. RQ2: Practical Deployability 

We assess the practical deployability of the framework by installing the automated Java agent into three widely adopted open source enterprise platforms consisting of RuoYi, BootDo, and XXL Job. The underlying operational problem in these legacy architectures is the complete disconnection between up-stream web authentication and downstream persistence layers, as data access calls operate entirely via anonymized connection pool flows. We classify the evaluation by framework integra-tion types spanning Apache Shiro security configurations and custom filter structures. The Java agent achieves transparent enforcement across all target applications without requiring any manual source code modifications to existing business services or mapper XML structures. We validate this capability against four distinct real world vulnerabilities comprising CVE 2025 28407, CVE 2025 28412, CVE 2025 28402, and CVE 2025 28413. The agent successfully hooks the lower level JDBC prepareStatement interface and intercepts every candidate query before database interaction. By extracting identity contexts from Shiro session attributes and mapping them to downstream trace identifiers, the framework establishes a reliable identity propagation bridge across asynchronous execution boundaries. The deployment evaluation demonstrates that IDORacle functions as a non intrusive safety net for legacy infrastructure where retrofitting security annotations directly into scattered service modules is technically impractical. Nevertheless, the empirical findings also underscore an inherent architectural constraint. The deployment success is strictly contingent upon the integrity of the primary upstream authentication tier. Should the initial JWT or session validation component be entirely compromised by an attacker, the metadata bound to the server side trace identity becomes invalid, which validates IDORacle as a powerful defense in depth mechanism rather than a total replacement for fundamental entry control. 

7.4. RQ3: Micro Level Performance 

To evaluate the micro level computational cost introduced by the database reference monitor, we subject the oracle engine to high concurrency stress tests under varying cache states. The baseline NO GUARD processing latency remains below 0.001 ms per query instance. In the worst case GUARD NO CACHE scenario, where the engine is forced to perform complete lexi-cal parsing, table classification, context extraction, and abstract syntax tree rewrite generation for every execution instance, the mean latency reaches 0.17 ms. This performance penalty in-troduces a discernible bottleneck that scales linearly with query frequency inside batch application loops. The activation of the redundancy aware template plan cache in the GUARD WITH CACHE configuration signif-icantly mitigates this performance limitation. By utilizing normalized SQL template fingerprints and identity context records to look up precompiled mediation strategies, the mean processing cost drops sharply to 0.017 ms, representing an average performance optimization of ninety percent. This reduction demonstrates that the system e ff ectively separates the expensive initial structural analysis from the lightweight per instance parameter binding work. However, a granular evaluation of the cache behavior reveals a specific operational variance depending on the type of persistence framework used by the host application. While static mapping tools such as MyBatis maintain stable templates that yield near perfect cache hit ratios, fully dynamic Object Relational Mapping implementations such as Hibernate or JPA often generate highly fragmented and volatile raw SQL texts at runtime. In such environments, the template plan 11 fingerprint uniqueness increases, causing a reduction in the overall cache hit rate and driving performance down toward the uncached baseline. This finding highlights that lifting the interception boundary to higher level abstraction APIs constitutes an essential requirement for highly dynamic data access architectures. 

7.5. RQ4: End to End Impact 

We examine the macroscopic impact of the defense frame-work by tracking the end to end response latency of individual web endpoints across the four reproduced enterprise vulnera-bilities. As illustrated in Figure 3, the evaluation encompasses four specific indicators comprising the average total latency, the average request latency, the maximum request ceiling, and the average minimum request baseline. The experimental results reveal a stark contrast in the baseline performance characteris-tics across di ff erent business domains. For example, Dictionary Type operations under CVE 2025 28407 exhibit a higher inher-ent mean latency of approximately 30 ms with maximum spikes exceeding 120 ms, whereas Notice management endpoints un-der CVE 2025 28412 operate within a tighter distribution aver-aging around 10 ms due to simpler configuration lookups and fewer internal join operations. When analyzing the execution behavior, we classify the re-quests into authorized self access paths and unauthorized hori-zontal privilege escalation paths. For authorized operations, the reference monitor introduces a marginal latency increase across all endpoints due to the mandatory interception and context ex-traction steps. The caching mechanism successfully absorbs a major fraction of this cost, as evidenced by the average mini-mum request indicator where cached requests consistently run several milliseconds faster than their uncached counterparts. A highly compelling and non intuitive finding emerges when analyzing the unauthorized horizontal escalation paths where Alice targets resources owned by Bob. Across all evaluated CVE scenarios, the end to end latency for blocked or rewritten adversarial requests is consistently lower than the latency recorded for the corresponding authorized paths. This phenomenon is directly attributable to the structural eff ects of the AST rewrite on the database engine execution plan. Because the injected user identity predicate restricts row visibility to Alice, the query yields an empty result set early in the database processing pipeline. This early termination short circuits heavy internal data serialization, memory allocation, and large network payload transfers back to the application server. Consequently, the defense mechanism turns a security enforcement boundary into an accidental performance opti-mization for malicious tra ffi c, ensuring that the average end to end response latency remains safely below 35 ms even under intensive automated attack campaigns. 

8. Discussion 

8.1. Scope of SQL-Sink Enforcement 

IDORacle is designed to prevent horizontal object-level authorization violations whose security e ff ect is ultimately realized through Java-SQL database operations. Its protection boundary is intentionally narrower than the full space of access-control failures. The system is e ff ective when an attacker-controlled object identifier reaches a protected SQL sink and when the relevant authorization relation can be rep-resented by table metadata, ownership predicates, or column policies. Several limitations inherently bound this architectural scope. First, privilege escalation requests executing through third-party opaque APIs, rather than downstream observable SQL sinks, evade interception. Without local protected SQL operations, IDORacle lacks the runtime AST manipulation leverage necessary to enforce constraints. Second, accesses that bypass instrumented JDBC drivers—such as complex encapsulated stored procedures without explicit resource semantics—require manual adapter interventions. Third, if access-control decisions rely exclusively on volatile transient business states unmapped to database schemas or the identity record, a purely SQL-layer reference monitor cannot inde-pendently infer such intent. Fourth, fully automated ORM frameworks such as Hibernate or JPA often generate highly dynamic and fragmented SQL strings at runtime; applying IDORacle directly at the raw JDBC layer in such environments may reduce template cache hit rates, potentially approaching the GUARD_NO_CACHE performance baseline ( ∼0.17 ms). Aviable mitigation is to lift the interception point to the HQL or Criteria API abstraction layer, where query structure re-mains stable and the dual-fingerprint mechanism retains its effi ciency—though this requires framework-specific adapters beyond the current prototype. A broader avenue for future work is the integration of IDORacle with static analysis or authorization-inference tools such as BolaRay or MOCGuard (Huang et al., 2024; Liu et al., 2025a). Automatically generating baseline policy templates from inferred ownership relations would reduce the manual configuration overhead for large-scale legacy deployments, allowing IDORacle to serve as the runtime enforcement engine for statically derived policies. 

8.2. Layer Placement and Deployment Trade-o ff s

IDORacle does not require developers to rewrite MVC controllers, service methods, or mapper definitions. This low-intrusion deployment model is important for legacy Java systems, where authorization logic is often scattered. By enforcing object-level constraints at the DAO /JDBC bound-ary, IDORacle provides a resilient safety net even when service-layer checks are absent or incomplete. However, delaying enforcement to the JDBC layer in-troduces specific deployment trade-o ff s. When a malicious request could have been denied at the routing layer via strict RBAC annotations, intercepting it at the SQL sink means the application has already expended CPU cycles on routing, parameter parsing, and intermediate business logic. While this late-enforcement model ensures the database state remains secure, it incurs a marginal computational cost prior to rejec-tion. Nonetheless, as the micro-benchmark and caching results demonstrate, this overhead is e ff ectively contained. IDORacle 12 prioritizes a deterministic, unified enforcement point at the data-access boundary, complementing rather than supplanting existing early-stage authorization mechanisms. 

9. Related Work 

9.1. Web Logic Vulnerabilities 

Access-control flaws are widely recognized as semantic web logic vulnerabilities, distinct from syntactic input-validation errors. Early systems such as NoTamper, MACE, and AuthScope reason about hidden parameters, user sessions, and protocol fields to identify parameter tampering and hor-izontal privilege escalation (Bisht et al., 2010; Monshizadeh et al., 2014; Zuo et al., 2017). Complementary static and black-box studies further demonstrate that authorization defects depend on application-specific workflows, state tran-sitions, and business invariants (Sun et al., 2011; Felmetsger et al., 2010; Pellegrino and Balzarotti, 2014; Wang et al., 2026). These analyses establish that the legitimacy of a given request parameter is determined by the authenticated subject, the referenced object, and the backend operation jointly—a perspective that motivates treating IDOR prevention as asubject–object–operation consistency problem. Building on this foundation, recent testing systems im-prove logic-vulnerability discovery through stateful crawling, directed fuzzing, multi-user di ff erential testing, and runtime validation. Atropos, EvoCrawl, and Predator emphasize that realistic vulnerability discovery requires valid sessions, reachable program states, and semantically meaningful inputs (Güler et al., 2024; Guo et al., 2025; Wang et al., 2025). A2CT and DRacv further address automated testing and repair for function- and role-based access-control flaws (Schlaubitz et al., 2025; Xu et al., 2025). These techniques are complementary to IDORacle: they expose access-control defects during testing and analysis phases, whereas this work focuses on enforcing object-level authorization for deployed Java-SQL applications where vulnerable code paths may persist in production. 

9.2. BOLA Detection and Ownership Analysis 

IDOR is characterized as a concrete instance of Broken Object-Level Authorization (BOLA), where an authenticated user manipulates an object reference to access data or trigger state transitions outside the authorized scope (OWASP Foun-dation, 2023a; MITRE Corporation, 2026b; PortSwigger Web Security Academy, 2026b). Unlike Broken Function-Level Authorization, the endpoint itself may be legitimately callable; the violation arises when the concrete object selected by the request is not owned by, visible to, or administrable by the current subject (OWASP Foundation, 2023c,b). Eff ective IDOR reasoning therefore requires connecting the authenti-cated principal, attacker-controlled object identifiers, and the backend operation that dereferences them. Recent BOLA-oriented systems provide increasingly pre-cise evidence for missing object-level checks. BolaRay infers object-level authorization models in database-backed applica-tions, while MOCGuard targets missing-owner-check vulnera-bilities in Java web applications (Huang et al., 2024; Liu et al., 2025a). BACScan and BACFuzz demonstrate that HTTP re-sponse observation alone may be insu ffi cient, and improve de-tection through multi-user di ff erential analysis, runtime infor-mation, and SQL-level evidence (Liu et al., 2025b; Dharmaadi et al., 2025). UABScan further reveals inconsistent authenti-cation and authorization assumptions across Java web layers (Zhang et al., 2025). Empirical and zero-trust-oriented stud-ies reinforce the need to reason about BOLA beyond simple identifier guessing (Wu et al., 2025; Kaur, 2026). Collectively, these works advance the state of vulnerability discovery. IDOR-acle is positioned di ff erently: it shifts the objective from detect-ing whether a vulnerable endpoint exists to preventing unautho-rized object operations at the SQL execution boundary, provid-ing a runtime safety net for applications where detection-phase remediation is incomplete. 

9.3. SQL-Level Policy Enforcement 

Database and middleware research has long explored fine-grained policy enforcement through query rewriting, authorization views, predicated grants, row-level security, and policy-aware adapters. Classical approaches encode fine-grained authorization decisions as SQL predicates inside query processing (Rizvi et al., 2004; Chaudhuri et al., 2007), and modern database systems provide row-level-security mechanisms for policy-controlled row visibility (PostgreSQL Global Development Group, 2026; Microsoft, 2025). Security systems such as Qapla, Authorized Updates, and Blockaid further demonstrate that application-layer data access can be protected by mediating SQL outside ordinary business logic (Mehta et al., 2017; Eykholt et al., 2017; Zhang et al., 2022). Related middleware and policy-extraction studies address scalable database access control, query-control interfaces, and automated recovery of application access-control policies (Pappachan et al., 2020; Bogaerts et al., 2021; Shay et al., 2018; Zhang et al., 2023, 2024). While these systems establish the feasibility of SQL-level mediation, typical Java web deployments introduce an ad-ditional semantic gap not addressed by prior work. JDBC connection pools execute SQL under shared database cre-dentials, rendering the underlying DBMS unable to observe end-user identity. Authenticated user context, maintained in framework security components such as filters, controllers, or service methods, is therefore invisible at the database boundary. Moreover, IDOR policies span direct owner columns, join-derived ownership, group or tenant membership, role-sensitive transitions, and sensitive-column constraints—a breadth not captured by generic query-rewriting or row-level-security primitives. This gap motivates a Java-SQL-specific design that binds server-side identity context to SQL-template mediation, as realized by IDORacle. 

9.4. Java-SQL Access Control 

RBAC and ABAC remain important frameworks for ex-pressing roles, attributes, and coarse-grained authorization poli-cies (Sandhu et al., 1996; Hu et al., 2014). In legacy Java enter-prise systems, however, authorization logic is distributed across 13 filters, annotations, controllers, service methods, MyBatis map-pers, scheduled jobs, and JDBC calls. The layer that holds the authenticated subject identity is typically separated from the layer that executes the concrete SQL statement against the database. This separation creates a last-mile enforcement gap that upstream framework mechanisms do not directly address. IDORacle targets this gap by placing a reference monitor at the MyBatis /JDBC boundary as a complementary enforce-ment point, rather than a replacement for upstream authenti-cation or role authorization. Its template-guided design amor-tizes expensive parsing, normalization, table classification, and guard binding at the SQL-template level. Per-instance medi-ation then performs context binding, resource-key extraction, proof lookup, and guard-specific validation with low overhead. This placement preserves existing business code while enforc-ing object-level constraints immediately before protected SQL statements reach the database, making it well-suited for legacy Java-SQL applications where retrofitting authorization into ser-vice methods is impractical. 

10. Conclusion 

This paper presented IDORacle, a template-guided runtime prevention framework for Java-SQL IDOR vulnerabilities. IDORacle bridges the semantic gap between application-level identity and SQL-level object operations by propagating trusted subject context, compiling reusable SQL-template mediation plans, and enforcing ownership, membership, resolver-based, role /state, and sensitive-column guards before protected statements reach the database. The evaluation shows that IDORacle prevents the tested horizontal object-reference violations while preserving benign accesses, with a worst-case guard latency of 0.17 ms and a 90.1% overhead reduction under rewrite-decision caching. These results demonstrate that SQL-sink mediation can provide a practical last-mile safety net for legacy Java database-backed applications, complementing existing controller-, service-, and external-API authorization mechanisms. 

Declaration of competing interest 

The authors declare that they have no known competing fi-nancial interests or personal relationships that could have ap-peared to influence the work reported in this paper. 

Data availability 

Data will be made available on request. 

Funding 

This research did not receive any specific grant from fund-ing agencies in the public, commercial, or not-for-profit sectors. 

References 

Bisht, P., Hinrichs, T., Skrupsky, N., Bobrowicz, R., Venkatakrishnan, V.N., 2010. NoTamper: Automatic blackbox detection of parameter tampering opportunities in web applications, in: Proceedings of the 17th ACM Conference on Computer and Communications Security, Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA. pp. 607–618. doi: 10.1145/1866307.1866375 .Bogaerts, J., Lagaisse, B., Joosen, W., 2021. SEQUOIA: A middle-ware supporting policy-based access control for search and aggre-gation in data-driven applications. IEEE Transactions on Depend-able and Secure Computing 18, 325–339. doi: 10.1109/TDSC.201 8.2889309 .BootDo Project, 2026. BootDo: An Open-Source Java EE Framework Based on Spring Boot and MyBatis. GitHub repository. URL: https: 

// github.com /lcg0124 /bootdo. accessed: 2026-06-20. Chaudhuri, S., Dutta, T., Sudarshan, S., 2007. Fine grained authori-zation through predicated grants, in: Proceedings of the 23rd IEEE International Conference on Data Engineering, IEEE. pp. 1174– 1183. doi: 10.1109/ICDE.2007.368972 .CTFIOT Security, 2024. BootDo Framework Vulnerability Analysis: Unauthorized Access, SQL Injection, Information Disclosure, and Stored XSS. URL: https: // www.ctfiot.com /206530.html. accessed: 2026-06-20. CVE Public Advisory Repository, 2025. Public RuoYi CVE Advisory Cases. GitHub repository. URL: https: // github.com /20210607 /cv e_public /tree /main /ruoyi_case. accessed: 2026-06-20. Dharmaadi, I.P.A., Alhanahnah, M., Pham, V.T., Mohsen, F., Turk-men, F., 2025. BACFuzz: Exposing the silence on broken ac-cess control vulnerabilities in web applications. URL: h t t p s : 

// arxiv.org /abs /2507.15984, doi: 10.48550/arXiv.2507.15984 ,

arXiv:2507.15984 .Eykholt, K., Prakash, A., Mozafari, B., 2017. Ensuring autho-rized updates in multi-user database-backed applications, in: 26th USENIX Security Symposium, USENIX Association, Vancouver, BC, Canada. pp. 1445–1462. URL: https: // www.usenix.org /confe rence /usenixsecurity17 /technical-sessions /presentation /eykholt. Felmetsger, V., Cavedon, L., Kruegel, C., Vigna, G., 2010. Toward automated detection of logic vulnerabilities in web applications, in: Proceedings of the 19th USENIX Security Symposium, USENIX Association. URL: https: // www.usenix.org /legacy /event /sec10 /te ch /full_papers /Felmetsger.pdf. Güler, E., Schumilo, S., Schloegel, M., Bars, N., Görz, P., Xu, X., Kaygusuz, C., Holz, T., 2024. Atropos: Eff ective fuzzing of web applications for server-side vulnerabilities, in: Proceedings of the 33rd USENIX Security Symposium, USENIX Association, Philadelphia, PA, USA. pp. 1523–1538. URL: https: // www.usenix .org /conference /usenixsecurity24 /presentation /guler. Guo, X., Kawlay, A., Liu, E., Lie, D., 2025. EvoCrawl: Explor-ing web application code and state using evolutionary search, in: Proceedings of the 32nd Network and Distributed System Security Symposium, The Internet Society. URL: h t t p s : / / w w w. n d ss -s y m p o s i u m . o r g / n d ss - p a p e r / ev o c r a wl - e x p l o r i n g - w e b -application- code- and- state- using- evolutionary- search /,doi: 10.14722/ndss.2025.230366 .

14 Hu, V.C., Ferraiolo, D., Kuhn, R., Schnitzer, A., Sandlin, K., Miller, R., Scarfone, K., 2014. Guide to Attribute Based Access Control (ABAC) Definition and Considerations. Technical Report Special Publication 800-162. National Institute of Standards and Technol-ogy. doi: 10.6028/NIST.SP.800-162 .Huang, Y., Shi, C., Lu, J., Li, H., Meng, H., Li, L., 2024. Detect-ing broken object-level authorization vulnerabilities in database-backed applications, in: Proceedings of the 2024 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security, Associa-tion for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA. pp. 2934– 2948. doi: 10.1145/3658644.3690227 .JSqlParser Project, 2026. JSqlParser: Java SQL parser. Software docu-mentation. URL: https: // jsqlparser.github.io /JSqlParser /. accessed: 2026-05-29. Kaur, B., 2026. Broken object level authorization in the wild: An empirical taxonomy from 100 + bug bounty disclosures. URL: https: 

// arxiv.org /abs /2605.25865, doi: 10.48550/arXiv.2605.25865 ,

arXiv:2605.25865 .Liu, F., Shi, Y., Zhang, Y., Yang, G., Li, E., Yang, M., 2025a. MOC-Guard: Automatically detecting missing-owner-check vulnerabili-ties in Java web applications, in: Proceedings of the 2025 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy, IEEE Computer Society. pp. 903–919. doi: 10.1109/SP61157.2025.00010 .Liu, F., Zhang, Y., Li, E., Meng, W., Shi, Y., Wang, Q., Wang, C., Lin, Z., Yang, M., 2025b. BACScan: Automatic black-box detection of broken-access-control vulnerabilities in web applications, in: Pro-ceedings of the 2025 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security, Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA. pp. 1320–1333. doi: 10.1145/3719027.37 44825 .Mehta, A., Elnikety, E., Harvey, K., Garg, D., Druschel, P., 2017. Qapla: Policy compliance for database-backed systems, in: 26th USENIX Security Symposium, USENIX Association, Vancouver, BC, Canada. pp. 1463–1479. URL: https: // www.usenix.org /confe rence /usenixsecurity17 /technical-sessions /presentation /mehta. Microsoft, 2025. Row-Level Security. Microsoft SQL Server Docu-mentation. URL: https: // learn.microsoft.com /en-us /sql /relational-databases /security /row-level-security?view =sql-server-ver17. accessed: 2026-05-30. MITRE Corporation, 2026a. CWE-284: Improper Access Control. Common Weakness Enumeration. URL: https: // cwe.mitre.org /data 

/definitions /284.html. accessed: 2026-05-30. MITRE Corporation, 2026b. CWE-639: Authorization Bypass Through User-Controlled Key. Common Weakness Enumeration. URL: https: // cwe.mitre.org /data /definitions /639.html. accessed: 2026-05-30. Monshizadeh, M., Naldurg, P., Venkatakrishnan, V.N., 2014. MACE: Detecting privilege escalation vulnerabilities in web applications, in: Proceedings of the 2014 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Com-puter and Communications Security, Association for Computing Machinery. doi: 10.1145/2660267.2660337 .National Vulnerability Database, 2023. CVE-2023-33779 Detail. URL: https: // nvd.nist.gov /vuln / detail /CVE- 2023- 33779. accessed: 2026-06-20. National Vulnerability Database, 2025a. CVE-2025-28400 Detail. URL: https: // nvd.nist.gov /vuln / detail /CVE- 2025- 28400. accessed: 2026-06-20. National Vulnerability Database, 2025b. CVE-2025-28402 Detail. URL: https: // nvd.nist.gov /vuln / detail /CVE- 2025- 28402. accessed: 2026-06-20. National Vulnerability Database, 2025c. CVE-2025-28406 Detail. URL: https: // nvd.nist.gov /vuln / detail /CVE- 2025- 28406. accessed: 2026-06-20. National Vulnerability Database, 2025d. CVE-2025-28407 Detail. URL: https: // nvd.nist.gov /vuln / detail /CVE- 2025- 28407. accessed: 2026-06-20. National Vulnerability Database, 2025e. CVE-2025-28411 Detail. URL: https: // nvd.nist.gov /vuln / detail /CVE- 2025- 28411. accessed: 2026-06-20. National Vulnerability Database, 2025f. CVE-2025-28412 Detail. URL: https: // nvd.nist.gov /vuln / detail /CVE- 2025- 28412. accessed: 2026-06-20. National Vulnerability Database, 2025g. CVE-2025-28413 Detail. URL: https: // nvd.nist.gov /vuln / detail /CVE- 2025- 28413. accessed: 2026-06-20. National Vulnerability Database, 2025h. CVE-2025-70985 Detail. URL: https: // nvd.nist.gov /vuln / detail /CVE- 2025- 70985. accessed: 2026-06-20. OWASP Foundation, 2021. A01:2021 – Broken Access Control. OWASP Top 10. URL: https: // owasp.org /Top10 /A01_2021-Broken_Access_Control /. accessed: 2026-05-29. OWASP Foundation, 2023a. API1:2023 – Broken Object Level Authorization. OWASP API Security Top 10. URL: h t t p s : 

// owasp.org /API- Security /editions /2023 /en /0xa1- broken-object-level-authorization /. accessed: 2026-05-29. OWASP Foundation, 2023b. API3:2023 – Broken Object Property Level Authorization. OWASP API Security Top 10. URL: https: 

// owasp.org /API-Security /editions /2023 /en /0xa3-broken-object-property-level-authorization /. accessed: 2026-05-30. OWASP Foundation, 2023c. API5:2023 – Broken Function Level Authorization. OWASP API Security Top 10. URL: h t t p s : 

// owasp.org /API- Security /editions /2023 /en /0xa5- broken-function-level-authorization /. accessed: 2026-05-29. OWASP Foundation, 2025. A01:2025 – Broken Access Control. OWASP Top 10. URL: https: // owasp.org /Top10 /2025 /A01_2025-Broken_Access_Control /. accessed: 2026-05-29. Pappachan, P., Yus, R., Mehrotra, S., Freytag, J.C., 2020. Sieve: A middleware approach to scalable access control for database man-agement systems. Proceedings of the VLDB Endowment 13, 2424– 2437. doi: 10.14778/3407790.3407835 .Pellegrino, G., Balzarotti, D., 2014. Toward black-box detection of logic flaws in web applications, in: Proceedings of the Network and Distributed System Security Symposium. URL: https: // www.ndss-symposium.org /wp-content /uploads /2017 /09 /04_2_1.pdf. 

15 PortSwigger Web Security Academy, 2026a. Access control vulner-abilities and privilege escalation. Web Security Academy. URL: https: // portswigger.net /web-security /access-control. accessed: 2026-05-29. PortSwigger Web Security Academy, 2026b. Insecure direct object references. Web Security Academy. URL: https: // portswigger.net /

web-security /access-control /idor. accessed: 2026-05-29. PostgreSQL Global Development Group, 2026. PostgreSQL Docu-mentation: Row Security Policies. PostgreSQL Documentation. URL: h t t p s : / / w w w. p o s t g r e s q l . o r g / d o c s / c u r r e n t / d d l -rowsecurity.html. accessed: 2026-05-30. Rizvi, S., Mendelzon, A., Sudarshan, S., Roy, P., 2004. Extending query rewriting techniques for fine-grained access control, in: Pro-ceedings of the 2004 ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data, Association for Computing Machinery. pp. 551–562. doi: 10.1145/1007568.1007631 .RuoYi Project, 2026. RuoYi: A Spring Boot-Based Permission Man-agement System. GitHub repository. URL: https: // github.com /yan gzongzhuan /RuoYi. accessed: 2026-06-20. Sandhu, R.S., Coyne, E.J., Feinstein, H.L., Youman, C.E., 1996. Role-based access control models. Computer 29, 38–47. doi: 10.1109/ 2.485845 .Schlaubitz, M., Veyisoglu, O., Rennhard, M., 2025. A2CT: Automated detection of function and object-level access control vulnerabilities in web applications, in: Proceedings of the 11th International Con-ference on Information Systems Security and Privacy, INSTICC. SciTePress. pp. 425–436. doi: 10.5220/0013092700003899 .Shay, R., Blumenthal, U., Gadepally, V., Hamlin, A., Darby, J., Cun-ningham, R.K., 2018. Don’t even ask: Database access control through query control. SIGMOD Record 47, 20–25. doi: 10.1145/ 3316416.3316420 .Sun, F., Xu, L., Su, Z., 2011. Static detection of access control vulnerabilities in web applications, in: Proceedings of the 20th USENIX Security Symposium, USENIX Association. URL: https: 

// www.usenix.org /conference /usenix-security-11 /static-detection-access-control-vulnerabilities-web-applications. Wang, C., Meng, W., Luo, C., Li, P., 2025. Predator: Directed web ap-plication fuzzing for e ffi cient vulnerability validation, in: Proceed-ings of the 2025 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy, IEEE Computer Society. pp. 886–902. doi: 10.1109/SP61157.2025.0 0066 .Wang, M., Görz, P., Schilling, J., Hassler, K., Guo, L., Holz, T., Ab-basi, A., 2026. Anota: Identifying business logic vulnerabilities via annotation-based sanitization, in: Proceedings of the 33rd Network and Distributed System Security Symposium, The Internet Society. URL: https: // www.ndss- symposium.org /ndss- paper /anota-identifying-business-logic-vulnerabilities-via-annotation-based-sanitization /.World Wide Web Consortium, 2021. Trace Context. W3C Recom-mendation. URL: https: // www.w3.org /TR /trace-context /. accessed: 2026-05-30. Wu, A., Feng, Z., Feng, R., Xing, Z., Liu, Y., 2025. Rethinking broken object level authorization attacks under zero trust principle. URL: https: // arxiv.org /abs /2507.02309, doi: 10.48550/arXiv.2507.02 309 , arXiv:2507.02309 .Xu, K., Zhang, B., Li, J., He, H., Ren, R., Ren, J., 2025. DRacv: De-tecting and auto-repairing vulnerabilities in role-based access con-trol in web application. Journal of Network and Computer Applica-tions 240, 104191. doi: 10.1016/j.jnca.2025.104191 .XXL-JOB Project, 2026. XXL-JOB: A Distributed Task Scheduling Platform. GitHub repository. URL: https: // github.com /xuxueli /xxl-job. accessed: 2026-06-20. Zhang, Q., Liu, F., Lin, Z., Zhang, Y., 2025. Be aware of what you let pass: Demystifying URL-based authentication bypass vulnera-bility in Java web applications, in: Proceedings of the 2025 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security, Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA. pp. 1874–1888. doi: 10.1145/3719027.3765199 .Zhang, W., Bali, D., Kerney, J., Panda, A., Shenker, S., 2023. Access control for database applications: Beyond policy enforcement, in: Proceedings of the Workshop on Hot Topics in Operating Systems, Association for Computing Machinery. doi: 10.1145/3593856. 3595905 .Zhang, W., Bali, D., Kerney, J., Panda, A., Shenker, S., 2024. Extract-ing database access-control policies from web applications. arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.11380. URL: https: // arxiv.org /abs /2411.11380. Zhang, W., Bali, D.A., Panda, A., Shenker, S., 2022. Blockaid: Data access policy enforcement for web applications, in: Proceedings of the 16th USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation, USENIX Association. URL: https: // www.usenix .org /conference /osdi22 /presentation /zhang. Zuo, C., Zhao, Q., Lin, Z., 2017. AuthScope: Towards automatic discovery of vulnerable authorizations in online services, in: Pro-ceedings of the 2017 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security, Association for Computing Machinery. pp. 799–813. doi: 10.1145/3133956.3134089 .

16