Title: Secure Aggregate Encryption with Identity-Based Authentication for Multi-Vendor FPGA Cloud Deployment

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2610.11873v1

Published Time: Fri, 09 Oct 2026 01:57:33 GMT

Number of Pages: 35

Markdown Content:
# Secure Aggregate Encryption with Identity-Based Authentication for Multi-Vendor FPGA Cloud Deployment 

## MUKTA DEBNATH, University of Calcutta, India 

## KRISHNENDU GUHA, University College Cork, Ireland 

## DEBASRI SAHA, University of Calcutta, India 

## AMLAN CHAKRABARTI, University of Calcutta, India 

## SUSMITA SUR-KOLAY, Indian Statistical Institute, India 

Secure deployment of FPGA bitstreams in heterogeneous multi-vendor cloud infrastructures requires scalable authorization, authen-ticated device access, and bitstream protection throughout the deployment lifecycle. Existing approaches typically address these functions through separate mechanisms, increasing coordination and key-management requirements. This paper presents SAEID , a secure FPGA deployment framework that integrates aggregate authorization, certificate-free identity-based device authentication, and identity-bound bitstream verification within a pairing-based cryptographic framework, with symmetric cryptography used for session binding and AES-256-GCM-based bitstream protection. Building on AgEID, an aggregate-encryption scheme that enables individual decryption for authorized FPGA devices, SAEID extends the underlying framework to heterogeneous multi-vendor deployments by supporting multiple FPGA vendors and IP providers, capability-aware authorization, and dynamic device membership. SAEID provides protection against unauthorized access to future deployments after device revocation and to prior deployments by newly enrolled devices, while retaining constant-size aggregate ciphertexts within each vendor domain and individual decryption. Experimental results demonstrate the practical performance of SAEID, with identity-based device authentication completing in approximately 4.35 ms and device membership updates requiring 4.95–5.09 𝜇 s for device addition. The aggregate-encryption component exhibits scalable behavior with increasing device-set size. The complete SAEID software decryption path was also validated on a physical ZC702 Cortex-A9 platform, requiring 191.126 ms. These results demonstrate scalable aggregate authorization with bounded authentication and dynamic-membership overhead for secure multi-vendor FPGA deployment. CCS Concepts: • Security and privacy → Key management .Additional Key Words and Phrases: FPGA bitstream protection, Aggregate encryption, Identity-based authentication, Elliptic curve cryptography, Dynamic device membership 

1 Introduction 

Field-programmable gate arrays (FPGAs) have become shared cloud resources through the FPGA-as-a-Service (FaaS) paradigm, enabling remote deployment of accelerator IPs on heterogeneous FPGA infrastructures [22, 23]. Unlike conventional embedded deployments, cloud-based FPGA environments involve shared infrastructure managed by cloud service providers (CSPs), heterogeneous FPGA resources, and multiple tenants or IP providers that deploy proprietary hardware designs [30, 31, 36]. This deployment model introduces security requirements beyond conventional bitstream confidentiality, including device authentication, device-bound bitstream verification, scalable authorization, and secure management of dynamically changing device groups. Existing FPGA protection mechanisms, including secure boot and encrypted configuration, primarily protect individ-ual devices [2, 28, 29]. Certificate-based public-key infrastructures (PKIs) provide device authentication through digital certificates, but require certificate management, including storage, validation, and revocation, which can introduce 

> Authors’ Contact Information: Mukta Debnath, muktapearl.debnath@gmail.com, University of Calcutta, Kolkata, India; Krishnendu Guha, KGuha@ucc.ie, University College Cork, Cork, Ireland; Debasri Saha, debasri_cu@yahoo.in, University of Calcutta, Kolkata, India; Amlan Chakrabarti, acakcs@caluniv. ac.in, University of Calcutta, Kolkata, India; Susmita Sur-Kolay, ssk@isical.ac.in, Indian Statistical Institute, Kolkata, India.

1arXiv:2610.11873v1 [cs.CR] 8 Oct 2026 2 Debnath et al. 

> Table 1. Comparison Between AgEID and SAEID

Capability AgEID SAEID 

Aggregate Encryption ✓ ✓

Individual Decryption ✓ ✓

Multi-Vendor FPGA Deployment × ✓

Multiple IP Providers × ✓

Dynamic Device Membership Partial ✓

Capability-Aware Authorization × ✓

Forward/Backward Security × ✓

Certificate-Free Device Authentication × ✓

Identity-Bound Bitstream Verification × ✓

Authenticated Provider Binding × ✓

additional communication, latency, and storage overheads [41, 42]. Encryption of FPGA bitfiles is commonly used to prevent unauthorized access to protected IP, while authentication mechanisms are required to establish the legitimacy of IP vendors and users [33]. However, these mechanisms do not by themselves provide scalable authorization and authenticated deployment across heterogeneous multi-vendor FPGA infrastructures. Aggregate encryption provides scalable authorization by allowing a single ciphertext to distribute a session key to multiple authorized recipients while preserving individual decryption [13, 14]. Our previous work, AgEID [1], applied this principle to FPGA bitstream deployment, enabling an IP provider to encrypt a session key once for an authorized FPGA cluster. However, AgEID assumes a homogeneous single-vendor environment and primarily addresses confidentiality. Device authentication, bitstream integrity and device binding, heterogeneous multi-vendor deployment, and dynamic device membership are outside its security model. This paper presents SAEID , a secure FPGA deployment framework that extends AgEID to heterogeneous multi-vendor cloud infrastructures. SAEID supports multiple FPGA vendors and IP providers, capability-aware authorization, dynamic device membership, certificate-free identity-based device authentication, and identity-bound bitstream verification while retaining constant-size aggregate ciphertexts within each vendor domain and individual decryption. The framework combines aggregate authorization with authenticated deployment sessions and device-bound bitstream protection while maintaining separate cryptographic domains for the corresponding security functions. The contributions of this paper are summarized as follows: 

• Multi-vendor and multi-provider aggregate authorization. We extend aggregate encryption to hetero-geneous FPGA clouds using vendor-specific authorization domains, capability-aware device selection, and constant-size aggregate ciphertexts within each vendor domain. 

• Dynamic membership with forward and backward security. We introduce device addition and revocation through constant-cost updates to the affected vendor-specific authorization component, together with forward and backward security across membership epochs. 

• Certificate-free identity-based device authentication and device-bound bitstream integrity. We in-tegrate pairing-based device authentication and identity-bound bitstream verification with the aggregate-encryption framework using a common bilinear-group foundation. The identity domain uses an independent vendor master secret 𝑠 𝑣 , while aggregate authorization uses 𝛾 𝑣 , allowing the two functions to share the pairing infrastructure without sharing cryptographic secrets. SAEID: Secure Aggregate Encryption for Multi-Vendor FPGA Cloud Deployment 3                                        

> Table 2. Comparison of Representative FPGA Bitstream Deployment Frameworks
> Security Capability Conventional FPGA Protection Broadcast/KAC AgEID SAEID
> Constant-Size Ciphertext ××✓✓
> Individual Decryption ✓✓✓✓
> External Trusted Third Party Often Required Often Required ××
> Multi-Vendor Deployment ×Limited Limited ✓
> Multiple IP Providers ×××✓
> Dynamic Device Membership ×Partial Partial ✓
> Forward/Backward Security ×Partial Not Formalized ✓
> Certificate-Free Device Authentication ×××✓
> Identity-Bound Bitstream Verification Vendor-Specific ××✓

• Security analysis and implementation evaluation. We provide security arguments covering confidentiality, device impersonation and replay resistance, bitstream integrity and device binding, dynamic membership, and multi-vendor isolation. Experimental evaluation shows that the identity-based authentication exchange completes in approximately 4.35 ms, while device addition and revocation require only 4.95–5.09 𝜇 s and 4.49– 5.46 𝜇 s, respectively. The complete SAEID software path is additionally validated on physical ZC702 ARM hardware. The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2 reviews related work and cryptographic background. Section 3 defines the system and threat models. Section 4 presents the SAEID framework, followed by security analysis in Section 5, scalability analysis in Section 6, and experimental evaluation in Section 7. Section 8 discusses the results and limitations, and Section 9 concludes the paper. Detailed correctness derivations and security proof sketches are provided in Appendix A. 

2 Background and Related Work 2.1 FPGA Bitstream Security and Cloud Deployment 

FPGA bitstream security has traditionally focused on protecting the confidentiality and integrity of configuration data at the device level. Commercial FPGA platforms provide hardware-supported mechanisms for secure configuration and authentication [2, 28, 29]. Prior research has further investigated bitstream authentication [3], tamper protection [18], fault-injection attacks [19], and secure remote configuration [20]. FPGA IP protection has additionally considered confidentiality, authentication, tamper detection, and protection against hardware Trojan insertion. Saha and Sur-Kolay [33] discuss security challenges in FPGA IP distribution and management, encrypted bitstream deployment, IP vendor and user authentication, and partially reconfigurable FPGA systems. These mechanisms provide important device- and IP-level security guarantees but primarily consider individual FPGA configurations or IP distribution scenarios. With the emergence of cloud and multi-tenant FPGA infrastructures, security requirements extend to shared resources and remote provisioning. Studies have identified threats involving unauthorized configuration, information leakage, and attacks arising from multi-tenant resource sharing [22, 23, 31]. Secure cloud-FPGA systems have consequently explored protected execution and bitstream protection [21, 32], while trusted configuration mechanisms have been proposed for cloud FPGA deployments [30]. Bag et al. [15] further investigated cryptographically secure provisioning for multi-tenant FPGA environments. FPGA intellectual-property protection has also been studied through dynamic IP protection and 4 Debnath et al. licensing mechanisms [24, 26], as well as protection across the design-to-bitstream flow [35]. More recently, multi-tenant cloud FPGA security has been surveyed with emphasis on security, trust, and privacy challenges [36]. 

2.2 Aggregate Encryption and Dynamic Authorization 

Aggregate encryption addresses the scalability challenges of secure FPGA deployment by enabling cryptographic material to be distributed to multiple authorized devices without requiring a separate encryption operation for each recipient. Broadcast encryption provides a foundation for such multi-recipient authorization [13], while key-aggregate cryptography (KAC) enables a compact aggregate key to provide access to multiple ciphertext classes [14]. Building on these concepts, AgEID [1] adapted aggregate encryption to FPGA bitstream deployment, allowing an IP provider to encrypt an AES key once for an authorized FPGA cluster while preserving individual device decryption. Bag et al. [15] also demonstrated the applicability of cryptographic aggregation to secure multi-tenant FPGA provisioning. Cloud FPGA environments additionally require authorization policies to evolve as devices are added or revoked. Dynamic key-aggregate cryptosystems [16, 17] address dynamic membership and secure key updates, while secure FPGA provisioning and configuration have been explored using cryptographic key-establishment and re-encryption techniques [20, 25, 27]. 

2.3 Device Authentication and Bitstream Authenticity 

While aggregate encryption provides confidentiality and scalable authorization, secure FPGA deployment also requires authentication of the target device and verification of the deployed bitstream. Device authentication establishes the legitimacy of the FPGA participating in a deployment, whereas bitstream authenticity ensures that the configuration originates from an authorized IP provider and has not been modified. FPGA security architectures therefore incorporate authentication and integrity mechanisms in addition to bitstream encryption [2, 28, 29]. Earlier work by Drimer [3] investigated authentication of encrypted FPGA bitstreams using MAC-based mechanisms. These approaches provide authentication and integrity within their respective deployment models, but remain separate from the aggregate-encryption mechanism used for scalable multi-device authorization. Hardware-rooted authentication has also been extensively investigated for FPGA devices using physical unclonable functions (PUFs), including time-bounded FPGA authentication and PUF-based authentication and key-exchange protocols [37, 38]. Identity-based cryptography provides an alternative certificate-free approach in which public keys are derived from identities [9]. Pairing-based identity-based cryptography subsequently enabled identity-based encryption and signature constructions [4, 10–12]. FPGA implementations of identity-based encryption and identity-based signature verification have also been demonstrated using pairing-based and elliptic-curve techniques [39, 40]. Identity-based signcryption further combines confidentiality and authenticity within pairing-based frameworks [5–7], while Chatterjee et al. [8] explored pairing-based identity mechanisms for hardware authentication. 

2.4 Research Gap 

Existing FPGA security mechanisms address important aspects of bitstream protection, scalable authorization, and device authentication, but do not jointly address the requirements of heterogeneous cloud deployment. Vendor-supported secure-boot mechanisms primarily provide device-specific bitstream protection, while aggregate-encryption frameworks such as AgEID [1] reduce the overhead of authorizing multiple devices without providing certificate-free device authentication or identity-bound bitstream verification. Conventional authentication mechanisms may additionally require certificate and key management infrastructure. Consequently, there remains a need for a framework SAEID: Secure Aggregate Encryption for Multi-Vendor FPGA Cloud Deployment 5         

> Identity Authority
> I A 𝑣 1:𝑠 𝑣 1
> FPGA Vendor 𝑣 1
> Setup/KeyGen Identity Authority
> I A 𝑣 2:𝑠 𝑣 2
> FPGA Vendor 𝑣 2
> Setup/KeyGen partially trusted CSP Cluster formation, message relay IP Provider 𝑝
> Authentication / Bitstream Release FPGA 𝑣 1,1
> Authenticated FPGA 𝑣 2,1
> Authenticated
> 𝑠𝑣 1
> 𝑠𝑣 2
> 𝑑 𝑣,𝑖 ,SK ID 𝑣,𝑖 𝑑 𝑣,𝑖 ,SK ID 𝑣,𝑖 𝑃𝐾𝑣 , 𝑃 pub ,𝑣 𝑃𝐾𝑣 , 𝑃 pub ,𝑣
> SK ID 𝑝,𝑣 1SK ID 𝑝,𝑣 2
> relay Auth. proof Auth. proof Challenge, ciphertext

Fig. 1. SAEID system architecture. Each vendor maintains a separate cryptographic domain and provisions its FPGA devices with individual decryption keys and vendor-scoped identity keys. Registered IP providers obtain corresponding identity credentials. The CSP manages resources and relays protocol messages without access to vendor, provider, or device secret keys. 

that supports scalable aggregate authorization, Certificate-Free Identity-Based Device Authentication, identity-bound bitstream verification, heterogeneous multi-vendor deployment, multiple IP providers, and dynamic device membership. Table 2 summarizes the positioning of SAEID with respect to FPGA bitstream deployment approaches. 

3 System Model and Threat Model 

SAEID considers a cloud-based FPGA deployment environment involving FPGA vendors, IP providers, a cloud service provider (CSP), and FPGA devices, consistent with heterogeneous and multi-tenant FPGA-cloud deployments [30, 31, 36, 44]. Each FPGA vendor operates an identity authority IA 𝑣 for its own device and provider registrations. SAEID further considers multiple FPGA vendors and IP providers, with each vendor maintaining a separate cryptographic domain. 

3.1 System Entities 

As shown in Figure 1, SAEID comprises five classes of entities, reflecting the separation of hardware ownership, IP ownership, and cloud infrastructure commonly found in FPGA-cloud deployment models [30, 31]. 

• Identity Authorities ( IA 𝑣 ). Each FPGA vendor 𝑣 ∈ V operates an identity authority IA 𝑣 for registering its devices and IP providers. Thus, IA 𝑣 is a vendor-operated identity-provisioning function rather than an independent entity. It maintains the vendor-specific master identity secret 𝑠 𝑣 and public parameter 𝑃 pub ,𝑣 , and derives identity-based private keys SK ID 𝑣,𝑖 for devices and SK ID (𝑣 )

> 𝑝

for registered providers. 

• FPGA Vendors ( V). Vendor 𝑣 manufactures and provisions its FPGA devices and maintains its vendor-specific cryptographic domain. Each device FPGA 𝑣,𝑖 is provisioned with its individual decryption key 𝑑 𝑣,𝑖 and identity private key SK ID 𝑣,𝑖 . The vendor publishes the corresponding aggregate-encryption and identity public parameters. 6 Debnath et al. 

• IP Providers ( P). Provider 𝑝 develops accelerator designs and prepares architecture-specific bitstream variants. For deployment in vendor domain 𝑣 , it obtains the vendor-scoped identity credential SK ID (𝑣 )

> 𝑝

, selects eligible devices, generates a fresh 256-bit AES key 𝑚 , and invokes SAEID to authorize its recovery by the selected devices. 

• Cloud Service Provider (CSP). The CSP manages the shared FPGA infrastructure, including device inventory, resource allocation, scheduling, storage, and message forwarding. It is partially trusted: it is authorized to access public system parameters and to perform resource-management and message-relay functions, but does not receive vendor master secrets, identity-authority secrets, provider private credentials, device private keys, session keys, or deployment AES keys. The CSP may store, reorder, delay, or relay deployment messages and ciphertexts. 

• FPGA Devices. Each FPGA 𝑣,𝑖 has a unique identity ID 𝑣,𝑖 , individual decryption key 𝑑 𝑣,𝑖 , and identity key SK ID 𝑣,𝑖 .The identity key supports device authentication, while 𝑑 𝑣,𝑖 enables recovery of the authorized AES key 𝑚 . The device accepts a bitstream only after the required authentication, authorization, and integrity checks succeed. 

3.2 Capability-Aware Deployment Model 

Capability-based access control has been investigated for distributed and cloud environments to provide scalable and fine-grained resource authorization [43]. In FPGA-cloud deployments, resource and device selection must additionally account for heterogeneous FPGA capabilities and available resources [34, 44]. SAEID therefore selects FPGA devices according to their deployment capabilities rather than assuming a homogeneous device pool. Let 

𝑆 𝑐 = FPGA 𝑣,𝑖 | Capability (FPGA 𝑣,𝑖 ) = 𝑐 , (1) denote the devices satisfying capability class 𝑐 , where a capability class captures requirements such as FPGA-family compatibility, supported accelerator features, available logic, memory, DSP resources, and bitstream compatibility. For vendor 𝑣 , the eligible subset is 

𝑆 𝑐,𝑣 = FPGA 𝑣,𝑖 ∈ 𝑆 𝑐 , (2) and the participating vendor set is 

V𝑆 𝑐 = 𝑣 ∈ V | 𝑆 𝑐,𝑣 ≠ ∅ . (3) A capability cluster may therefore span multiple vendor domains. Capability membership determines eligibility only; cryptographic authorization remains vendor- and provider-specific. 

3.3 Multi-Vendor and Multi-Provider Deployment 

A selected capability cluster may contain devices from multiple vendors, reflecting heterogeneous FPGA-cloud infras-tructures [31, 36]. For each participating vendor 𝑣 , SAEID maintains a separate provisioning and cryptographic context and constructs the corresponding vendor-specific authorization component. Thus, cross-vendor resource pooling does not require sharing device private keys or merging vendor cryptographic domains. The system model also allows multiple IP providers to deploy independent applications over the shared FPGA infrastructure. Each provider deployment is associated with its own authorization state, session context, and protected bitstream payload, while vendor-issued device credentials remain unchanged. Consequently, authorization or session state associated with one deployment does not by itself grant access to another provider’s protected deployment. SAEID: Secure Aggregate Encryption for Multi-Vendor FPGA Cloud Deployment 7 

> FPGA Device Protected Device Secrets Legitimate IP Provider Cryptographic Participant Cloud Service Provider
> Partially trusted Infrastructure
> authentication, bitstream, ciphertext relay
> Adversary A
> PPT
> control / observation eavesdrop replay modify inject impersonate substitute May compromise a sub-set of FPGA devices and obtain their local cryptographic material.

Fig. 2. Threat model of SAEID. The CSP is partially trusted for resource management and message relay but has no access to vendor, identity-authority, provider, or device private secrets. The adversary may observe or manipulate deployment communications, replay or modify messages, attempt device impersonation or bitstream substitution, and compromise a subset of FPGA devices, while master secrets of uncompromised domains remain protected. 

3.4 Threat Model and Security Objectives 

SAEID considers a probabilistic polynomial-time (PPT) adversary A that may observe or manipulate communications among IP providers, the CSP, and FPGA devices, illustrated in Figure 2,. The adversary may intercept, replay, modify, reorder, delay, or inject deployment messages and may obtain public parameters, deployment metadata, and stored ciphertexts. The adversary may observe or manipulate deployment communications and attempt unauthorized device access, impersonation, replay, message modification, or bitstream substitution without possessing valid device credentials. The adversary cannot obtain the master encryption secret 𝛾 𝑣 or identity secret 𝑠 𝑣 of an honest vendor, or the private credentials of legitimately registered devices and IP providers. Each vendor-operated identity authority IA 𝑣 is assumed to securely protect 𝑠 𝑣 and provision identity keys only to legitimately registered devices and IP providers. The CSP is partially trusted for resource management and message relay but does not possess vendor master secrets, private credentials, or device private keys. The model addresses confidentiality, authorization, authentication, integrity, replay resistance, and related security properties. Availability and denial-of-service attacks based on message dropping, persistent delay, or resource exhaustion are outside the scope. Under this model, SAEID provides the following security objectives: 

• Confidentiality and Unauthorized-Access Resistance. Only devices authorized for a deployment can recover its AES key 𝑚 and decrypt the corresponding bitstream. The CSP and other unauthorized entities cannot recover 𝑚 from the authorization metadata and aggregate ciphertext alone. 

• Dynamic-Membership Security. A revoked device cannot decrypt ciphertexts generated after revocation, while a newly enrolled device cannot decrypt ciphertexts generated before enrollment. After initial provisioning, membership changes affect only the corresponding vendor-specific aggregate-authorization component and do 8 Debnath et al. not require re-provisioning unaffected devices. Provider credential revocation is outside the present dynamic-membership model; provider credentials are assumed valid for their registration lifetime unless the corresponding vendor identity domain is re-provisioned. 

• Domain Isolation. Vendor cryptographic domains and provider deployment contexts remain independent; secret material obtained from one domain does not by itself provide authorization for another independent domain. 

• Authentication and Replay Resistance. An adversary without the identity private key of FPGA 𝑣,𝑖 cannot produce an accepted authentication proof for that device except with negligible probability. Fresh authentication challenges prevent reuse of previously observed authentication transcripts in a new deployment session. 

• Authenticated Session Binding. The authenticated provider–device exchange binds the aggregate ciphertext to its corresponding deployment context, including the authenticated identities and freshness values. A ciphertext or authorization message from a different deployment context must be detected before recovery of the AES key. 

• Bitstream Integrity and Device Binding. The identity-bound provider signature authenticates the registered provider and binds the deployment to the intended device, while AES-256-GCM provides authenticated protec-tion of the bitstream payload. Consequently, unauthorized or modified deployment artifacts can be detected before FPGA configuration. Provider revocation remains outside the present dynamic-membership mechanism. Physical extraction, invasive attacks, and compromise of an honest vendor’s or identity authority’s master secrets are outside the model. Likewise, compromise of an honest provider’s protected credential is excluded. Therefore, the authentication guarantee provides cryptographic impersonation resistance but does not cover physical extraction and duplication of a device’s identity key. 

4 Proposed SAEID Framework 

SAEID extends AgEID from a homogeneous, single-vendor FPGA deployment model to a heterogeneous multi-vendor and multi-provider environment. The underlying aggregate-encryption mechanism and individual-decryption property of AgEID are retained. SAEID adds four principal capabilities: (i) capability-aware device selection across heterogeneous FPGA platforms; (ii) vendor-specific authorization domains supporting multiple IP providers; (iii) dynamic device membership with forward and backward security; and (iv) certificate-free identity-based device authentication and identity-bound bitstream verification. The distinction between AgEID and SAEID is therefore primarily at the deployment and security layers rather than in the underlying aggregate-encryption primitive. In SAEID, eligible devices are first organized into vendor-specific authorization domains, while identity-based authentication establishes the identity of the target device before deploy-ment. A fresh AES deployment key 𝑚 is protected through the corresponding vendor-specific aggregate-encryption components, and the architecture-specific bitstream is cryptographically bound to the authenticated device and provider. Device addition and revocation update only the affected vendor-specific authorization component, while the identity credentials of unaffected devices remain unchanged. Table 1 summarizes the principal extensions introduced by SAEID. The following subsections describe the SAEID construction, system parameters, algorithms, authentication protocol, aggregate authorization, dynamic membership, and bitstream verification mechanisms. The dynamic membership updates are illustrated in Figure 3, the deployment workflow in Fig. 4, and the authentication protocol in Fig. 5. SAEID: Secure Aggregate Encryption for Multi-Vendor FPGA Cloud Deployment 9

4.1 From AgEID to SAEID: A Deployment Scenario 

To illustrate the evolution from the original single-vendor deployment model to the complete SAEID framework, consider a deployment involving four FPGA devices from vendor 𝑣 1. The same deployment is then extended to a second vendor, followed by device membership change, authenticated deployment, and device-bound bitstream verification. 

Single-vendor deployment. Vendor 𝑣 1 operates 𝑛 𝑣 1 = 4 provisioned FPGA devices, {FPGA 𝑣 1,1, . . . , FPGA 𝑣 1,4 }, under an independent aggregate-encryption domain. The vendor maintains the public group elements required by the construction and a master secret 𝛾 𝑣 1 , and each device 𝑖 receives an individual decryption key 𝑑 𝑣 1,𝑖 = 𝛾 𝑣 1𝑔 𝑣 1,𝑖 .Suppose that a deployment is intended for the authorized subset 

𝑆 𝑐,𝑣 1 = {1, 2, 4},

while FPGA 𝑣 1,3 remains outside the selected deployment cluster. The corresponding aggregate-authorization component is 

𝐾 𝑆 𝑐,𝑣 1 ,𝑣 1 = 𝑔 𝑣 1,4 + 𝑔 𝑣 1,3 + 𝑔 𝑣 1,1. (4) The provider generates a fresh group-valued deployment secret 𝑚 𝐺 ∈ 𝐺 𝑇 and derives the AES-256 deployment key as 

𝐾 AES = SHA256  Serialize 𝐺 𝑇 (𝑚 𝐺 ) . (5) The vendor-specific aggregate ciphertext is then 

𝐶 𝑣 1 = (𝑐 1, 𝑐 2, 𝑐 3), (6) where 

𝑐 1 = 𝑡𝑔 𝑣 1,1, 𝑐 2 = 𝑡 



𝑃𝐾 𝑣 1 + 𝐾 𝑆 𝑐,𝑣 1 ,𝑣 1



, (7) and 

𝑐 3 = 𝑚 𝐺 · ˆ𝑒  𝑔 𝑣 1,4, 𝑡𝑔 𝑣 1,1

 , (8) for fresh 𝑡 ∈ Z∗ 

> 𝑝

. Each authorized device uses its individual decryption key together with the corresponding board-specific aggregate term 

𝑏 𝑖,𝑆 𝑐,𝑣 1 =∑︁  

> 𝑗 ∈𝑆 𝑐,𝑣 1
> 𝑗 ≠𝑖

𝑔 𝑣 1,𝑛 𝑣 1 +1− 𝑗 +𝑖 (9) to recover 𝑚 𝐺 and subsequently derive 𝐾 AES .For this example, the required device-specific terms are shown in Table 3. The example also illustrates that aggregate ciphertext size does not depend on the number of authorized devices. Although the auxiliary decryption term differs for each device, the same vendor-specific ciphertext is used by all authorized devices, while an unauthorized device does not satisfy the corresponding aggregate-decryption relation. 10 Debnath et al. 

Table 3. Device-specific aggregate-decryption terms for 𝑆 𝑐,𝑣 1 = {1, 2, 4}, 𝑛 𝑣 1 = 4.

Device Authorized Decryption key Aggregate term 

FPGA 𝑣 1,1 Yes 𝑑 𝑣 1,1 𝑔 𝑣 1,4 + 𝑔 𝑣 1,2

FPGA 𝑣 1,2 Yes 𝑑 𝑣 1,2 𝑔 𝑣 1,6 + 𝑔 𝑣 1,3

FPGA 𝑣 1,3 No 𝑑 𝑣 1,3 —FPGA 𝑣 1,4 Yes 𝑑 𝑣 1,4 𝑔 𝑣 1,8 + 𝑔 𝑣 1,7

Extension to a second vendor. The deployment is next extended to include FPGA 𝑣 2,1 from a second vendor 𝑣 2. Vendor 

𝑣 2 maintains an independent aggregate-encryption domain with its own public parameters, device keys, and master secret 𝛾 𝑣 2 . The overall capability cluster becomes 

𝑆 𝑐 = 𝑆 𝑐,𝑣 1 ∪ 𝑆 𝑐,𝑣 2 , 𝑆 𝑐,𝑣 2 = {1}.

The authorization state is therefore represented by the set of vendor-specific components 

𝐾 𝑆 𝑐 = 𝐾 𝑆 𝑐,𝑣 1 ,𝑣 1 , 𝐾 𝑆 𝑐,𝑣 2 ,𝑣 2 . (10) Each vendor domain is processed independently. No aggregate-encryption secret or device decryption key is shared between 𝑣 1 and 𝑣 2, and one aggregate-encryption operation is performed for each participating vendor domain. Hence, adding a new vendor increases the number of vendor-domain encryption operations without changing the ciphertext structure within an individual domain. 

Dynamic membership. Suppose FPGA 𝑣 1,3 is subsequently added to the deployment. Only the authorization component associated with vendor 𝑣 1 is updated: 

𝐾 𝑆 𝑐,𝑣 1 ∪{ 3},𝑣 1 = 𝐾 𝑆 𝑐,𝑣 1 ,𝑣 1 + 𝑔 𝑣 1,2, (11) where 𝑔 𝑣 1,2 is the contribution of the newly added device for 𝑛 𝑣 1 = 4. The component associated with vendor 𝑣 2

remains unchanged. The updated authorization state forms a new membership epoch and is used for subsequently generated ciphertexts. Ciphertexts generated under the previous epoch retain their original authorization state. Consequently, a device revoked before a new epoch cannot recover deployments generated under that new epoch, whereas a device enrolled in a later epoch cannot recover ciphertexts generated under an earlier epoch. Membership changes therefore affect authorization state without requiring regeneration of the identity credentials of unaffected devices. 

Authenticated and device-bound deployment. For a subsequent deployment, the selected target device first authenti-cates to the registered IP provider using its vendor-scoped identity credential. The authentication exchange establishes the shared session value 𝐾 𝑣 1,1,𝑝 and the session key 

𝐾 sess ,𝑣 1,1 = 𝐻 3



𝐾 𝑣 1,1,𝑝 ∥ 𝐼𝐷 𝑣 1,1 ∥ 𝐼𝐷 (𝑣 1 ) 

> 𝑝

∥ 𝑁 𝑣 1,1 ∥ 𝜏 𝑣 1,1



. (12) The provider uses this session key to authenticate the vendor-specific aggregate ciphertext and its deployment context through the session-binding tag. The target device verifies the session-binding tag before performing aggregate decryption. SAEID: Secure Aggregate Encryption for Multi-Vendor FPGA Cloud Deployment 11 After successful authorization, the device recovers b𝑚 𝐺 and derives 

b𝐾 AES = SHA256  Serialize 𝐺 𝑇 ( b𝑚 𝐺 ) . (13) For an authorized device, b𝑚 𝐺 = 𝑚 𝐺 and hence b𝐾 AES = 𝐾 AES . The device then verifies the provider’s identity-bound signature for its assigned architecture-specific bitstream variant and checks the corresponding AES-256-GCM authentication tag. Only after all authentication, authorization, signature, and integrity checks succeed is the bitstream decrypted and accepted for FPGA configuration. The same sequence is independently executed for devices belonging to vendor 𝑣 2 under that vendor’s aggregate-encryption and identity domains. Thus, credentials and authorization material associated with one vendor domain cannot be directly reused within another vendor domain. 

4.2 Capability-Aware Clustering and Heterogeneous Bitstream Deployment 

SAEID separates deployment compatibility from vendor identity by organizing eligible FPGA devices into capability-aware clusters. For a capability requirement 𝑐 , define 

𝑆 𝑐 = FPGA 𝑣,𝑖 : Capability (FPGA 𝑣,𝑖 ) = 𝑐 , (14) where 𝑐 captures the hardware and deployment requirements of the target accelerator, including FPGA-family compatibility, supported features, available logic, memory, DSP resources, and other application-specific constraints. Devices from different vendors may therefore belong to the same capability cluster; capability determines eligibility, while vendor identity determines the provisioning and cryptographic authorization domain. For each participating vendor 𝑣 , let 

𝑆 𝑐,𝑣 = FPGA 𝑣,𝑖 ∈ 𝑆 𝑐 , 𝐼 𝑐,𝑣 = 𝑖 : FPGA 𝑣,𝑖 ∈ 𝑆 𝑐,𝑣 , (15) where 𝐼 𝑐,𝑣 ⊆ { 1, . . . , 𝑛 𝑣 } is the corresponding device-index set. The participating vendor domains are 

V𝑆 𝑐 = 𝑣 ∈ V : 𝑆 𝑐,𝑣 ≠ ∅ . (16) Each vendor 𝑣 establishes an independent aggregate-encryption domain over a bilinear group 𝐺 of prime order 𝑝 

with generator 𝑔 and pairing ˆ 𝑒 : 𝐺 × 𝐺 → 𝐺 𝑇 . The vendor selects a setup exponent 𝛼 𝑣 ∈ Z∗ 

> 𝑝

and generates the public group elements 

𝑔 𝑣,𝑘 = 𝑔 𝛼 𝑘 𝑣 , 𝑘 ∈ { 1, . . . , 2𝑛 𝑣 }, 𝑘 ≠ 𝑛 𝑣 + 1, (17) where 𝑛 𝑣 is the number of provisioned devices in vendor domain 𝑣 . The vendor independently selects the aggregate-encryption secret 𝛾 𝑣 ∈ Z∗ 

> 𝑝

and publishes the corresponding public aggregate-encryption parameter 

𝑃𝐾 𝑣 = 𝛾 𝑣 𝑔, (18) where 𝑔 is the generator of 𝐺 . The remaining public system parameters, including the bilinear group description and the public elements {𝑔 𝑣,𝑘 }, are denoted collectively by param 𝑣 . The vendor retains 𝛾 𝑣 as the aggregate-encryption secret. Each registered device FPGA 𝑣,𝑖 is provisioned with its individual decryption key 

𝑑 𝑣,𝑖 = 𝛾 𝑣 𝑔 𝑣,𝑖 . (19) 12 Debnath et al.                                     

> 𝑆 𝑐,𝑣 ={1,2,3}
> 𝐾 𝑆𝑐,𝑣 ,𝑣
> Add device 𝑖 ′=4
> 𝐾 ′=𝐾 +Δadd
> 𝑣, 4
> 𝑆 𝑐,𝑣 ={1,2,3,4}
> updated 𝐾 𝑆𝑐,𝑣 ,𝑣
> 𝑆 𝑐,𝑣 ={1,2,3,4}
> 𝐾 𝑆𝑐,𝑣 ,𝑣
> Revoke device 𝑖 ∗=2
> 𝐾 ′=𝐾 −Δrev
> 𝑣, 2
> 𝑆 𝑐,𝑣 ={1,3,4}
> updated 𝐾 𝑆𝑐,𝑣 ,𝑣

Fig. 3. Dynamic membership update within a vendor-specific authorization domain. Device addition or revocation modifies only the affected aggregate-authorization component; identity credentials of unaffected devices and authorization components of other vendors remain unchanged. 

Each vendor independently constructs the aggregate-authorization component for its selected devices following the pairing-based key-aggregate construction used in AgEID [1]: 

𝐾 𝑆 𝑐,𝑣 ,𝑣 =∑︁  

> 𝑗 ∈𝐼 𝑐,𝑣

𝑔 𝑣,𝑛 𝑣 +1− 𝑗 . (20) The resulting multi-vendor authorization structure is 

K𝑆 𝑐 = 𝐾 𝑆 𝑐,𝑣 ,𝑣 : 𝑣 ∈ V 𝑆 𝑐 . (21) Thus, a deployment may span multiple vendor domains without merging their cryptographic domains. Capability membership is an eligibility criterion, not a cryptographic security boundary. Capability compatibility does not imply bitstream compatibility. Capability compatibility determines whether a device is eligible for the deployment, whereas architectural compatibility determines which compiled bitstream variant can be executed by that device. Let 

A ( 𝑆 𝑐 ) = Arch (𝑣, 𝑖 ) : FPGA 𝑣,𝑖 ∈ 𝑆 𝑐 , 𝜇 = |A ( 𝑆 𝑐 )| . (22) denote the distinct target architecture classes. The IP provider prepares one compiled bitstream variant Bit (𝑘 ) for each 𝑘 ∈ { 1, . . . , 𝜇 }, with devices in the same architecture class using the corresponding variant. Hence, bitstream preparation scales with 𝜇 , rather than directly with the number of devices. The IP provider protects all architecture-specific bitstream variants using a common deployment AES key 𝑚 . The key 

𝑚 is then protected for the selected devices through the multi-vendor authorization structure K𝑆 𝑐 , with one aggregate ciphertext generated for each participating vendor domain. The corresponding encryption and individual recovery procedures are given in Section 4.4. 

4.3 Multi-Vendor, Multi-Provider Deployment and Dynamic Membership 

The vendor-specific authorization components defined for a capability-aware cluster form the authorization structure for a multi-vendor deployment: 

K𝑆 𝑐 = 𝐾 𝑆 𝑐,𝑣 ,𝑣 : 𝑣 ∈ V 𝑆 𝑐 . (23) Each component is constructed independently within its vendor domain. Thus, devices from different vendors may participate in the same deployment without sharing vendor master secrets, device private keys, or identity-authority secrets. SAEID: Secure Aggregate Encryption for Multi-Vendor FPGA Cloud Deployment 13 SAEID also supports deployments from multiple IP providers. For a provider 𝑝 , the selected devices and corresponding vendor domains define the authorization structure for that deployment. The provider independently establishes the deployment session and generates a fresh AES key 𝑚 . The resulting deployment is therefore associated with its own authorization state, session context, and deployment key, without requiring changes to the vendor-issued device credentials. 

Dynamic Membership. As illustrated in Fig. 3, SAEID supports device addition and revocation without reconstructing the complete multi-vendor authorization structure. For an already provisioned device 𝑖 ′ added to 𝑆 𝑐,𝑣 ,

𝐾 𝑆 𝑐,𝑣 ∪{ 𝑖 ′ },𝑣 = 𝐾 𝑆 𝑐,𝑣 ,𝑣 + Δadd  

> 𝑣,𝑖 ′

, (24) where 

Δadd  

> 𝑣,𝑖 ′

= 𝑔 𝑣,𝑛 𝑣 +1−𝑖 ′ . (25) Similarly, revocation of device 𝑖 ∗ is performed as 

𝐾 𝑆 𝑐,𝑣 \{ 𝑖 ∗ },𝑣 = 𝐾 𝑆 𝑐,𝑣 ,𝑣 − Δrev  

> 𝑣,𝑖 ∗

, (26) with 

Δrev  

> 𝑣,𝑖 ∗

= 𝑔 𝑣,𝑛 𝑣 +1−𝑖 ∗ . (27) Hence, membership changes update only the affected vendor-specific aggregate component and have 𝑂 (1) aggregate-update cost. This cost assumes that an added device has already completed vendor provisioning and received its decryption and identity keys; provisioning and identity-key generation are outside the membership-update measurement. Revocation likewise does not require re-provisioning unaffected devices. Each aggregate authorization state is associated with a membership epoch 𝑒 , denoted by 𝐾 (𝑒 ) 

> 𝑆 𝑐,𝑣

. A membership change creates a new epoch, and subsequently generated ciphertexts use the updated authorization state. Thus, devices added in epoch 𝑒 + 1 cannot decrypt ciphertexts from epoch 𝑒 , while devices revoked before epoch 𝑒 + 1 cannot decrypt newly generated ciphertexts under epoch 𝑒 + 1. Previously issued ciphertexts are not retroactively re-encrypted. Identity keys authenticate devices, whereas the aggregate authorization state determines deployment access. Hence, membership changes do not require modification of the identity keys of unaffected devices. 

4.4 Aggregate Encryption and Secure Bitstream Execution 

SAEID retains the central deployment principle of AgEID: aggregate encryption protects a group-valued deployment secret from which the symmetric key used for bitstream protection is derived, rather than protecting the bitstream payload itself. For a capability-aware deployment cluster 𝑆 𝑐 with 𝜇 architecture-specific variants {Bit (𝑘 ) }𝜇 𝑘 =1, the IP provider samples a fresh group-valued deployment secret 𝑚 𝐺 ∈ 𝐺 𝑇 . The corresponding AES-256 deployment key is deterministically derived from the canonical byte serialization of 𝑚 𝐺 as 

𝐾 AES = SHA256  Serialize 𝐺 𝑇 (𝑚 𝐺 ) , (28) 14 Debnath et al.                                

> Vendor identity setup
> ExtractIdentityKey
> AuthenticateDevice Challenge (𝑁 , 𝜏 )
> Device response
> (𝑈 , 𝑉 )
> VerifyAuthentication
> ⇒𝐾 sess
> Extract( 𝑆 𝑐,𝑣 )
> →𝐾 𝑆𝑐,𝑣 ,𝑣
> SAEID.Encrypt
> →𝐶 𝑣 =(𝑐 1, 𝑐 2, 𝑐 3)
> Session binding
> 𝑇 𝑣 =MAC 𝐾 sess (𝐷 𝑣 )
> CSP relay/storage
> {𝐶 𝑣 ,𝑇 𝑣 ,Ct (𝑘 ),Tag (𝑘 )
> GCM , 𝜎 (𝑘 )
> 𝑝,𝑣,𝑖 }
> Verify 𝑇 𝑣
> with 𝐾 sess
> SAEID.Decrypt
> →ˆ𝑚
> Verify signature & GCM tag Bitstream decrypt & execute
> (𝑈 , 𝑉 )
> on accept 𝐾 𝑆𝑐,𝑣 ,𝑣 𝐶𝑣 𝑇𝑣
> encrypted artifacts on accept ˆ𝑚 on accept

Fig. 4. End-to-end authentication, aggregate-authorization, and secure bitstream deployment workflow. Device authentication establishes the session key 𝐾 sess , which is used to authenticate the vendor-specific aggregate ciphertext through the session-binding tag 𝑇 𝑣 . The CSP relays only encrypted deployment artifacts and protocol metadata. At the target FPGA, the session-binding tag is verified before aggregate content-key recovery, followed by identity-bound signature verification and AES-GCM tag verification before bitstream decryption and configuration. 

where 𝐾 AES ∈ { 0, 1}256 is used as the key for AES-256-GCM. The session key 𝐾 sess ,𝑣,𝑖 is separate from 𝐾 AES and is used only to bind the authenticated provider–device exchange. Figure 4 shows the end-to-end authentication, aggregate-authorization, and secure bitstream deployment workflow. For each participating vendor 𝑣 ∈ V 𝑆 𝑐 , the vendor-specific aggregate-authorization component 𝐾 𝑆 𝑐,𝑣 ,𝑣 protects the group-valued deployment secret 𝑚 𝐺 . Let 𝑡 𝑅 

←− Z𝑝 be a fresh encryption scalar. The aggregate ciphertext is constructed using the bilinear pairing ˆ 𝑒 : 𝐺 × 𝐺 → 𝐺 𝑇 inherited from the AgEID construction [1]. The ciphertext is 

𝐶 𝑣 = (𝑐 1, 𝑐 2, 𝑐 3), (29) where 

𝑐 1 = 𝑡𝑔, (30) 

𝑐 2 = 𝑡 (𝑃𝐾 𝑣 + 𝐾 𝑆 𝑐,𝑣 ,𝑣 ), (31) 

𝑐 3 = 𝑚 𝐺 · ˆ𝑒 (𝑔 𝑣,𝑛 𝑣 , 𝑡𝑔 𝑣, 1). (32) Here, 𝑃𝐾 𝑣 denotes the public parameter of the vendor’s aggregate-encryption domain. Hence, one aggregate-encryption operation is performed per participating vendor domain rather than per authorized FPGA device. For each architecture-specific variant, the provider encrypts and authenticates the bitstream using the common AES deployment key 𝐾 AES :



Ct (𝑘 ) , Tag (𝑘 )

> GCM



← AES-256-GCM .Encrypt 



𝐾 AES , 𝐼𝑉 (𝑘 ) , Bit (𝑘 ) , Hdr (𝑘 ) 

. (33) Here, 𝐼𝑉 (𝑘 ) is the GCM initialization vector (nonce), which is unique for each encryption performed under the same key 

𝐾 AES . The value Hdr (𝑘 ) denotes the associated data authenticated by AES-GCM. The provider additionally generates an identity-bound signature that binds the deployment to the authenticated provider, target device, and architecture-specific variant. SAEID: Secure Aggregate Encryption for Multi-Vendor FPGA Cloud Deployment 15                    

> FPGA Device 𝑣, 𝑖 IP Provider
> 1. Challenge (𝑁 , 𝜏 )
> 𝑁 ∈𝑅 {0,1}𝑘 , 𝜏 =timestamp
> IP Provider verifies the identity-based proof
> 𝑉 =(𝑟 +ℎ)SK ID 𝑣,𝑖
> 2. Response (𝑈 , 𝑉 )
> 3. Verification result Accept iff proof verification succeeds and 𝜏 is fresh 4. Session-bound authorization (𝐶𝑣 ,𝑇𝑣 )

Fig. 5. Authentication protocol message flow: challenge generation, identity-based device response, verification, and session-bound vendor authorization. Successful authentication establishes the session key 𝐾 sess , which is subsequently used to authenticate the vendor-specific aggregate ciphertext 𝐶 𝑣 through the session-binding tag 𝑇 𝑣 . Detailed authentication equations are given in Section 4.5. 

Following successful device authentication, the provider and device establish the session key 𝐾 sess ,𝑣,𝑖 for the au-thenticated deployment exchange. Its establishment is described in Section 4.5. The resulting session key is used to authenticate the deployment metadata and bind the aggregate ciphertext to the authenticated provider–device session. 

Device-Side Key Recovery. For a device FPGA 𝑣,𝑖 ∈ 𝑆 𝑐,𝑣 , define 

𝑏 𝑖,𝑆 𝑐,𝑣 =∑︁  

> 𝑗 ∈𝐼 𝑐,𝑣
> 𝑗 ≠𝑖

𝑔 𝑣,𝑛 𝑣 +1− 𝑗 +𝑖 , (34) where 𝐼 𝑐,𝑣 is the corresponding set of device indices. Using its individual decryption key 𝑑 𝑣,𝑖 , the device recovers the group-valued deployment secret as 

b𝑚 𝐺 = 𝑐 3 · ˆ𝑒  𝑑 𝑣,𝑖 + 𝑏 𝑖,𝑆 𝑐,𝑣 , 𝑐 1



ˆ𝑒  𝑔 𝑣,𝑖 , 𝑐 2

 . (35) For an authorized device 𝑖 ∈ 𝐼 𝑐,𝑣 , the bilinear cancellation property gives 

b𝑚 𝐺 = 𝑚 𝐺 . (36) The device then derives the AES deployment key from the recovered group element: 

b𝐾 AES = SHA256  Serialize 𝐺 𝑇 ( b𝑚 𝐺 ) . (37) Consequently, for an authorized device, b𝐾 AES = 𝐾 AES , whereas devices outside the authorized subset do not satisfy the corresponding aggregate decryption condition. The algebraic correctness of Eq. (35) is provided in Appendix A. The complete deployment procedure is summarized in Algorithm 1 and illustrated in Figure 4. The CSP relays and stores only encrypted artifacts and protocol metadata. At the target FPGA, the device first verifies the session-binding tag, recovers the group-valued deployment secret, derives the AES deployment key, verifies the identity-bound signature and AES-GCM authentication tag, and only then decrypts and configures the assigned bitstream variant. 16 Debnath et al. 

Algorithm 1 Aggregate Encryption and Secure Bitstream Execution 

Require: Capability cluster 𝑆 𝑐 , architecture-specific variants {Bit (𝑘 ) }𝜇 𝑘 =1

Ensure: Secure deployment of the assigned bitstream variant  

> 1:

Generate a fresh group-valued deployment secret 𝑚 𝐺 ←𝑅 𝐺 𝑇 ⊲ Deployment-secret generation  

> 2:

Derive 𝐾 AES ← SHA256 (Serialize 𝐺 𝑇 (𝑚 𝐺 )) ⊲ AES-256 deployment-key derivation  

> 3:

for all 𝑘 = 1, . . . , 𝜇 do  

> 4:

Compute 



Ct (𝑘 ) , Tag (𝑘 )

> GCM



← AES-256-GCM .Encrypt 



𝐾 AES , 𝐼𝑉 (𝑘 ) , Bit (𝑘 ) , Hdr (𝑘 ) 

⊲ Bitstream encryption and authentication  

> 5:

end for  

> 6:

for all 𝑣 ∈ V 𝑆 𝑐 do  

> 7:

Select fresh 𝑡 𝑅 

←− Z𝑝  

> 8:

Compute 𝐶 𝑣 = (𝑐 1, 𝑐 2, 𝑐 3) using 𝐾 𝑆 𝑐,𝑣 ,𝑣 and 𝑚 𝐺 ⊲ Aggregate encryption of 𝑚 𝐺  

> 9:

for all 𝑖 ∈ 𝐼 𝑐,𝑣 do  

> 10:

Establish the authenticated session key 𝐾 sess ,𝑣,𝑖 ⊲ Provider–device authentication  

> 11:

Form 𝐷 𝑣,𝑖 ← ID 𝑣,𝑖 ∥ ID (𝑣 ) 

> 𝑝

∥ 𝑁 𝑣,𝑖 ∥ 𝜏 𝑣,𝑖 ∥ 𝑣 ∥ 𝑐 ∥ 𝐶 𝑣  

> 12:

Compute 𝑇 𝑣,𝑖 ← MAC 𝐾 sess ,𝑣,𝑖 (𝐷 𝑣,𝑖 ) ⊲ Session binding  

> 13:

end for  

> 14:

Relay {𝐶 𝑣 ,𝑇 𝑣,𝑖 }𝑖 ∈𝐼 𝑐,𝑣 and the assigned protected variants through the CSP ⊲ CSP performs relay/storage only  

> 15:

for all 𝑖 ∈ 𝐼 𝑐,𝑣 do  

> 16:

Verify 𝑇 𝑣,𝑖 using 𝐾 sess ,𝑣,𝑖  

> 17:

if verification fails then  

> 18:

Reject deployment  

> 19:

end if  

> 20:

Recover b𝑚 𝐺 from 𝐶 𝑣 using individual decryption ⊲ Aggregate decryption  

> 21:

Derive b𝐾 AES ← SHA256 (Serialize 𝐺 𝑇 ( b𝑚 𝐺 )) ⊲ AES-256 key recovery  

> 22:

Verify the identity-bound provider signature ⊲ Provider/deployment authentication  

> 23:

Verify Tag (𝑘 ) 

> GCM

⊲ Bitstream integrity verification  

> 24:

if any verification fails then  

> 25:

Reject deployment  

> 26:

else  

> 27:

Decrypt and configure the assigned Ct (𝑘 ) using b𝐾 AES  

> 28:

end if  

> 29:

end for  

> 30:

end for 

4.5 Integrated Identity-Based Authentication and Bitstream Integrity 

SAEID addresses two distinct security requirements in FPGA-cloud deployment. Aggregate encryption provides scalable authorization of the AES deployment key 𝑚 , whereas identity-based cryptography provides certificate-free authentication of FPGA devices and registered IP providers. SAEID integrates these two mechanisms within separate vendor-specific cryptographic domains: the aggregate-encryption secret 𝛾 𝑣 protects deployment-key authorization, while the identity secret 𝑠 𝑣 supports device authentication and provider authentication/signatures. Thus, identity-based authentication complements rather than replaces the aggregate-encryption mechanism inherited from AgEID. For each vendor 𝑣 , the identity framework operates over a cyclic group G of prime order 𝑝 with generator 𝑔 and bilinear pairing ˆ𝑒 : G × G → G𝑇 .SAEID: Secure Aggregate Encryption for Multi-Vendor FPGA Cloud Deployment 17 The vendor operates the identity authority IA 𝑣 , which maintains the master identity secret 𝑠 𝑣 ∈ Z∗ 

> 𝑝

and publishes the corresponding public identity parameter 

𝑃 pub ,𝑣 = 𝑠 𝑣 𝑔. (38) The identity domain is independent of the aggregate-encryption domain, whose vendor-specific secret is 𝛾 𝑣 .During vendor provisioning, each FPGA device FPGA 𝑣,𝑖 is assigned a unique identity ID 𝑣,𝑖 = DEV: ∥ VendorID 𝑣 ∥ DeviceIndex 𝑖 . (39) Its identity point and corresponding private key are 

𝑄 𝑣,𝑖 = 𝐻 1 (ID 𝑣,𝑖 ), SK ID 𝑣,𝑖 = 𝑠 𝑣 𝑄 𝑣,𝑖 , (40) where 

𝐻 1 : {0, 1}∗ → G

maps an identity string to a point in G. The resulting identity private key is provisioned to the corresponding FPGA and is used for identity-based authentication. Similarly, each IP provider registered under vendor 𝑣 is assigned a vendor-scoped identity from a separate namespace: ID (𝑣 ) 

> 𝑝

= PROV: ∥ VendorID 𝑣 ∥ ProviderID 𝑝 . (41) The corresponding identity point and private key are 

𝑄 (𝑣 ) 

> 𝑝

= 𝐻 1 (ID (𝑣 ) 

> 𝑝

), SK (𝑣 ) 

> ID 𝑝

= 𝑠 𝑣 𝑄 (𝑣 ) 

> 𝑝

. (42) Thus, device and provider identities are derived within the same vendor-specific identity domain but use distinct namespaces. This allows SAEID to authenticate both the target FPGA device and the registered IP provider with-out introducing a separate certificate-management infrastructure, while preserving the separation of identity-based authentication from aggregate authorization. 

Device Authentication. The provider initiates authentication with a fresh nonce and timestamp, 

𝑁 𝑣,𝑖 𝑅 

←− { 0, 1}𝑘 , 𝜏 𝑣,𝑖 = Timestamp . (43) The device samples a random scalar 𝑟 𝑅 

←− Z𝑝 and computes the randomized identity point 𝑈 , the challenge scalar ℎ,and the response 𝑉 as 

𝑈 = 𝑟𝑄 𝑣,𝑖 , (44) 

ℎ = 𝐻 2 (ID 𝑣,𝑖 ∥ 𝑁 𝑣,𝑖 ∥ 𝜏 𝑣,𝑖 ∥ 𝑈 ), (45) 

𝑉 = (𝑟 + ℎ)SK ID 𝑣,𝑖 . (46) Here, 𝑈 is the randomized proof component and 𝑉 is the corresponding identity-based response, while ℎ is the verifier challenge derived from the device identity, freshness values, and 𝑈 .The provider accepts the proof only if 𝜏 𝑣,𝑖 is fresh and ˆ𝑒 (𝑔, 𝑉 ) ?

= ˆ𝑒  𝑃 pub ,𝑣 , 𝑈 + ℎ𝑄 𝑣,𝑖 

 . (47) For an honestly generated proof, correctness follows from bilinearity and SK ID 𝑣,𝑖 = 𝑠 𝑣 𝑄 𝑣,𝑖 . Following successful authentication, the device and provider derive the shared pairing value using their respective vendor-scoped identity 18 Debnath et al. credentials: 

𝐾 𝑣,𝑖,𝑝 = ˆ𝑒 



SK ID 𝑣,𝑖 , 𝑄 (𝑣 )

> 𝑝



= ˆ𝑒 



𝑄 𝑣,𝑖 , SK (𝑣 )

> ID 𝑝



. (48) The session key is then derived as 

𝐾 sess ,𝑣,𝑖 = 𝐻 3



𝐾 𝑣,𝑖,𝑝 ∥ 𝐼𝐷 𝑣,𝑖 ∥ 𝐼𝐷 (𝑣 ) 

> 𝑝

∥ 𝑁 𝑣,𝑖 ∥ 𝜏 𝑣,𝑖 



. (49) The session key is used for deployment-session binding and remains distinct from the AES key 𝑚 protected by aggregate encryption. The authentication exchange is illustrated in Figure 5. 

Identity-Bound Bitstream Integrity. For each architecture-specific encrypted variant Ct (𝑘 ) , the registered provider generates an identity-bound signature using its vendor-scoped identity private key SK (𝑣 ) 

> ID 𝑝

. Following the same pairing-based Fiat–Shamir construction used for device authentication, the signature is computed over the provider identity, target device identity, encrypted bitstream variant, and associated release metadata. Thus, the signature binds the protected variant to its registered provider and intended FPGA device. At the target FPGA, the signature is verified using the corresponding vendor public identity parameter 𝑃 pub ,𝑣 and the registered provider identity. The device then verifies the AES-GCM authentication tag using the recovered AES key ˆ𝑚 . Deployment is accepted only when both provider authentication and encrypted-payload integrity are successfully verified. The detailed signature construction and verification equations, together with the corresponding correctness and unforgeability arguments, are provided in Appendix A. 

5 Security Analysis 

SAEID considers a probabilistic polynomial-time (PPT) adversary A that may control the cloud service provider (CSP), observe, replay, modify, reorder, or inject deployment messages, and compromise a subset of FPGA devices. A compromised device exposes its locally stored decryption and identity keys. The adversary may therefore attempt unauthorized recovery of the AES key 𝑚 , device impersonation, bitstream substitution, cross-vendor or cross-provider privilege escalation, and exploitation of membership changes. Vendor master secrets, identity-authority secrets, and protected secrets stored in uncompromised devices are outside the adversary’s capabilities, as defined in Section 3.4. SAEID separates the aggregate-encryption domain from the identity domain. The former is protected by the vendor-specific secret 𝛾 𝑣 , while device authentication and identity-bound provider signatures use the identity secret 𝑠 𝑣 . The AES-GCM key 𝑚 is freshly generated for each deployment, and the session key 𝐾 sess ,𝑣,𝑖 is derived from the authenticated device–provider exchange. The security proof sketches and the corresponding advantage bound are provided in Appendix A. 

AES-Key Confidentiality and Collusion Resistance. SAEID applies aggregate encryption to the group-valued deploy-ment secret 𝑚 𝐺 ∈ 𝐺 𝑇 , from which the AES-256 deployment key 𝐾 AES is derived. For a vendor-specific deployment set 

𝑆 𝑐,𝑣 , only devices satisfying the corresponding aggregate- authorization relation can recover 𝑚 𝐺 and consequently derive 𝐾 AES . An unauthorized device, the CSP, or a coalition of compromised devices that does not satisfy this relation cannot recover 𝑚 𝐺 from the aggregate ciphertext except with negligible probability under the BDHE assumption underlying the aggregate-encryption construction. SAEID: Secure Aggregate Encryption for Multi-Vendor FPGA Cloud Deployment 19 

Algorithm 2 Identity Authentication and Bitstream Integrity Verification 

Require: Device FPGA 𝑣,𝑖 , provider 𝑝 , encrypted variant Ct (𝑘 ) , recovered AES key ˆ 𝑚 

Ensure: Authenticated deployment or rejection  

> 1:

Provider selects fresh (𝑁 𝑣,𝑖 , 𝜏 𝑣,𝑖 ) 

> 2:

Provider sends (𝑁 𝑣,𝑖 , 𝜏 𝑣,𝑖 ) to the device  

> 3:

Device samples 𝑟 𝑅 

←− Z𝑝 and computes 𝑈 ← 𝑟𝑄 𝑣,𝑖  

> 4:

ℎ ← 𝐻 2 (ID 𝑣,𝑖 ∥ 𝑁 𝑣,𝑖 ∥ 𝜏 𝑣,𝑖 ∥ 𝑈 ) 

> 5:

𝑉 ← ( 𝑟 + ℎ)SK ID 𝑣,𝑖  

> 6:

Device sends (𝑈 , 𝑉 ) to the provider  

> 7:

Provider verifies freshness and checks ˆ𝑒 (𝑔, 𝑉 ) ?

= ˆ𝑒 (𝑃 pub ,𝑣 , 𝑈 + ℎ𝑄 𝑣,𝑖 ) 

> 8:

if verification fails then  

> 9:

Reject authentication  

> 10:

end if  

> 11:

Provider generates the identity-bound signature 𝜎 (𝑘 ) 

> 𝑝,𝑣,𝑖
> 12:

Provider sends 𝜎 (𝑘 ) 

> 𝑝,𝑣,𝑖

with the encrypted variant  

> 13:

Device verifies 𝜎 (𝑘 ) 

> 𝑝,𝑣,𝑖
> 14:

if signature verification fails then  

> 15:

Reject bitstream  

> 16:

end if  

> 17:

Device verifies the AES-GCM authentication tag using ˆ 𝑚  

> 18:

if tag verification fails then  

> 19:

Reject bitstream  

> 20:

else  

> 21:

Accept and decrypt the assigned variant  

> 22:

end if 

The confidentiality of the protected bitstream variants then follows from the confidentiality of 𝐾 AES and the security of AES-256-GCM. Importantly, possession of an identity credential does not provide aggregate-decryption capability because the identity secret 𝑠 𝑣 and the aggregate-encryption secret 𝛾 𝑣 are distinct. SAEID retains the aggregate-encryption algebra of AgEID; its extensions change device selection, vendor-domain or-ganization, authentication, and deployment authorization without modifying the underlying confidentiality mechanism. The complete reduction is provided in Appendix A. 

Dynamic Device Membership. SAEID supports device addition and revocation by updating only the affected vendor-specific aggregate-authorization component according to the addition and revocation procedures defined earlier in the construction. The 𝑂 (1) complexity applies specifically to this aggregate-key update; provisioning and installation of long-term credentials for a newly added device are separate operations. Each membership state is associated with an epoch 𝐸 0, 𝐸 1, . . . . A membership change creates a new epoch, and devices added or revoked by that change are respectively included in or excluded from the updated authorization state for subsequently generated ciphertexts. Previously generated ciphertexts remain governed by their original authorization state. Hence, a revoked device cannot recover newly generated ciphertexts using its previous authorization, and a newly enrolled device cannot recover earlier ciphertexts solely because of its subsequent enrollment. These forward- and 20 Debnath et al. backward-security properties apply to newly generated authorization material and do not revoke plaintext keys or bitstreams already legitimately obtained by a device. Identity credentials of unaffected devices remain unchanged. Provider credential revocation is outside the present dynamic-membership model, which covers FPGA-device membership only. The membership epoch versions the autho-rization state across membership changes and is distinct from the nonce- and timestamp-based freshness mechanism used for authentication replay resistance. The formal dynamic-membership argument is provided in Appendix A. 

Device Authentication and Replay Resistance. SAEID authenticates each target FPGA using a randomized identity-based Fiat–Shamir proof. The provider supplies a fresh nonce 𝑁 𝑣,𝑖 and timestamp 𝜏 𝑣,𝑖 , and these values are incorporated into the authentication challenge. Following successful verification, both participants derive the session key as defined in Eq. (49), which binds the vendor-specific aggregate ciphertext to the authenticated deployment context. An adversary without the target device’s identity private key cannot produce an accepted proof for a fresh challenge except with negligible probability under the stated identity-based Fiat–Shamir assumptions. Previously recorded authentication transcripts are prevented from being reused through fresh nonces and timestamps, together with rejection of previously accepted freshness values. The per-device freshness state is assumed to be maintained in trusted persistent storage and preserved across ordinary power cycles and FPGA reconfiguration. Loss or rollback of this trusted state is outside the present threat model. Thus, the replay-resistance guarantee is explicitly conditional on preservation of the trusted freshness state. 

Bitstream Integrity and Device Binding. SAEID combines an identity-bound provider signature with AES-GCM authenticated encryption. The signature challenge incorporates the provider identity, target-device identity, encrypted payload, and release metadata. Consequently, the signature is bound to a particular provider, encrypted payload, and target FPGA rather than to a generic bitstream release. The target device accepts a protected variant only when both the identity-bound signature and the AES-GCM authentication tag verify. Modification of the encrypted payload invalidates the authenticated encryption check, while redirection of a valid signature to another device changes the identity-bound challenge and invalidates the signature. Therefore, under identity-based signature unforgeability and AES-GCM authenticity, modified, substituted, forged, or incorrectly targeted bitstreams are rejected except with negligible probability. 

Multi-Vendor and Multi-Provider Isolation. Each vendor maintains an independent aggregate-encryption domain and vendor-scoped identity domain. A device credential or authorization component from vendor 𝑣 therefore does not directly satisfy the authentication or authorization conditions of another vendor 𝑣 ′. For each provider deployment, the aggregate-authorization components and session-binding keys are maintained within the corresponding vendor and deployment contexts. Consequently, compromise of one provider deployment does not by itself provide the cryptographic material required to access another independent provider deployment or vendor domain, assuming the corresponding vendor and provider credentials remain protected. 

Protection Against a Partially Trusted CSP. The CSP performs resource management, deployment storage, and message relay, but does not receive vendor master secrets, identity-authority secrets, device private keys, the AES key 

𝑚 , or 𝐾 sess ,𝑣,𝑖 . Consequently, cryptographic confidentiality and deployment authenticity do not depend on the CSP possessing these secret values. The aggregate-encryption mechanism prevents recovery of 𝑚 by the CSP, while provider authentication and AES-GCM verification allow the target device to detect unauthorized or modified deployment SAEID: Secure Aggregate Encryption for Multi-Vendor FPGA Cloud Deployment 21 artifacts. Under the stated cryptographic and freshness assumptions, the CSP cannot recover 𝑚 or cause a modified deployment artifact to pass the device-side verification checks except with negligible probability. 

Secure Composition. The SAEID security properties compose through distinct cryptographic roles: 𝛾 𝑣 protects aggregate authorization of 𝑚 ; 𝑠 𝑣 supports device authentication and provider signatures; 𝐾 sess ,𝑣,𝑖 provides session binding; and 𝑚 protects the bitstream through AES-GCM. The identity-based authentication and provider-signature mechanisms share the vendor identity domain 𝑠 𝑣 , but use separate protocol roles and identity namespaces. Under the stated key-separation, domain-separation, cryptographic, and freshness assumptions, an end-to-end violation must correspond to a failure of at least one of the underlying confidentiality, authentication, signature, authenticated- encryption, or freshness mechanisms. The detailed game-based reductions and advantage bounds are given in Appendix A. 

6 Scalability Analysis 

Let |𝑆 𝑐 | denote the number of FPGA devices in a deployment cluster, |𝑆 𝑐,𝑣 | the number of selected devices belonging to vendor 𝑣 , 𝑉 the number of participating FPGA vendors, 𝑃 the number of active IP providers, and 𝜇 the number of architecture-specific bitstream variants required by a deployment. SAEID separates these factors across different stages of deployment. Aggregate-authorization preparation depends on the number of selected devices within each vendor domain, aggregate content-key encryption depends on the number of participating vendor domains, and heterogeneous bitstream preparation depends on the number of distinct target architectures. 

6.1 Complexity of Core Operations 

Vendor provisioning and long-term device-key generation are enrollment operations and require 𝑂 (𝑛 𝑣 ) operations for 𝑛 𝑣 

devices in vendor domain 𝑣 . For a selected deployment subset 𝑆 𝑐,𝑣 , aggregate- authorization preparation requires 𝑂 (| 𝑆 𝑐,𝑣 |) 

group operations, after which aggregate encryption of the AES key 𝑚 requires 𝑂 (1) cryptographic operations per vendor domain and 𝑂 (𝑉 ) for a deployment spanning 𝑉 vendors. Device-side recovery is 𝑂 (1) when the authorization-dependent decryption term is precomputed; computing this term from the deployment set at runtime requires 𝑂 (| 𝑆 𝑐,𝑣 |) 

group additions. Device authentication and session binding use a fixed number of cryptographic operations per device session and are therefore 𝑂 (1) with respect to the deployment population. Dynamic membership updates only the affected vendor-specific aggregate-authorization component, following Eqs. (24) and (26). Hence, device addition and revocation require only a local update to the corresponding authorization state. Thus, device addition and revocation require 𝑂 (1) aggregate-key update work with respect to the deployment population. This bound excludes device provisioning and long-term credential installation; unaffected devices require no re-provisioning and previously generated ciphertexts need not be re-encrypted. Heterogeneous deployment introduces a separate factor. If 𝜇 distinct target architectures occur in the selected cluster, the provider prepares and authenticated-encrypts 𝜇 architecture-specific bitstream variants, giving 𝑂 (𝜇 ) variant-processing instances. The cost of compiling each variant remains architecture- and application-dependent and is separate from aggregate authorization. Table 4 shows the complexity of SAEID’s deployment modules. These bounds separate device-set-dependent authorization preparation from per-session cryptographic processing and architecture-dependent bitstream preparation. The implementation results are consistent with these relationships: 22 Debnath et al. 

Table 4. End-to-End Asymptotic Complexity of SAEID Deployment                              

> Deployment Component Complexity
> Aggregate-authorisation preparation 𝑂 ( | 𝑆 𝑐,𝑣 | )
> Aggregate AES-key encryption 𝑂 (1)per vendor; 𝑂 (𝑉 )overall Device authentication 𝑂 (1)per device session Session-binding computation 𝑂 (1)per device session Bitstream variant preparation 𝑂 (𝜇 )
> Provider signature generation 𝑂 (𝜇 |𝑆 𝑣 | )
> Device-side signature verification 𝑂 (1)per deployed variant Aggregate-authorisation membership update 𝑂 (1)

Table 5. Operation Counts for Heterogeneous FPGA Deployments                

> Deployment Configuration Bitstream Variants Aggregate AES-Key Encryption Operations
> Single vendor, single architecture ( 𝜇 =1)11Single vendor, 𝜇 architectures 𝜇 1
> 𝑉 vendors, 𝜇 architectures 𝜇 𝑉

aggregate-key extraction increases with the authorized device-set size, online AES-key encryption remains approxi-mately independent of that size, and membership-update cost remains approximately constant across the evaluated cluster sizes. 

6.2 Multi-Vendor and Multi-Provider Scaling 

For a deployment spanning 𝑉 participating vendor domains, SAEID generates one aggregate ciphertext for the AES key 

𝑚 per vendor domain. Hence, the online aggregate AES-key encryption workload is 

𝑂 (𝑉 ). (50) Once the corresponding aggregate-authorization components have been prepared, this online cost is independent of the number of authorized devices within each vendor domain. For 𝑃 provider deployments, let 𝑉 𝑝 denote the number of vendor domains participating in provider 𝑝 ’s deployment. The cumulative aggregate AES-key encryption workload is therefore 

𝑂 

> 𝑃

∑︁ 

> 𝑝 =1

𝑉 𝑝 

!

, (51) which becomes 𝑂 (𝑃𝑉 ) when every provider deploys across all 𝑉 vendor domains. This expression denotes cumulative cryptographic workload across the provider deployments and does not represent wall-clock latency under concurrent execution. Table 5 shows the operation counts for various deployment configurations in SAEID. The multi-vendor and multi-provider evaluation provides empirical evidence consistent with these scaling rela-tionships. Aggregate encryption workload increases approximately linearly with the number of participating vendor domains, while provider deployments maintain separate authorization state. These results characterize cumulative workload scaling and should not be interpreted as measurements of end-to-end wall-clock latency for concurrent deployments. SAEID: Secure Aggregate Encryption for Multi-Vendor FPGA Cloud Deployment 23 

6.3 Communication and Deployment Scaling 

For each participating vendor, the aggregate ciphertext 𝐶 𝑣 = (𝑐 1, 𝑐 2, 𝑐 3) has fixed size independent of |𝑆 𝑐,𝑣 |. Hence, aggregate-authorization ciphertext communication is 𝑂 (𝑉 ) for 𝑉 participating vendor domains. Authentication and session metadata contribute fixed-size overhead per authenticated device, resulting in 𝑂 (| 𝑆 𝑐 |) metadata. The encrypted bitstream payload is excluded because its size depends on the target architecture and application. Capability-aware clustering limits aggregate-authorization processing to the selected devices. Adding devices within an existing vendor domain does not increase the number of online aggregate AES-key encryption operations. This number increases only when additional vendor domains participate. Thus, aggregate-authorization preparation scales with the selected devices, online aggregate AES-key encryption with the participating vendor domains, and bitstream preparation with the number of architecture variants. Dynamic membership updates remain 𝑂 (1) at the aggregate-authorization update level. 

7 Experimental Evaluation 7.1 Experimental Setup 

The SAEID implementation was evaluated at both software and embedded levels. Software experiments were conducted on an Intel Core i5-8500 3.00 GHz six-core processor running Ubuntu 22.04.2 LTS. The cryptographic core uses PBC 0.5.14 with Type-A pairings over the 160-bit Solinas-prime curve adopted from AgEID. AES-256-GCM was implemented using the OpenSSL 3.0.18 EVP interface. The implementation covers the SAEID cryptographic operations, dynamic membership, multi-vendor and multi-provider authorization, identity-based authentication, and identity-bound bitstream integrity. Before performance evaluation, an automated correctness suite containing 23 functional checks was executed. The tests cover authorized and unauthorized decryption, revoked and wrong-vendor devices, dynamic membership, forward-and backward-membership behavior, device authentication, and bitstream-integrity verification. All 23 tests passed. Performance measurements used operation-specific repetition counts. Primitive operations were measured over 2000 repetitions, general cryptographic and scalability experiments over 100 trials, and decryption over 300 trials. Cross-domain isolation and membership experiments used 200 and 100 trials, respectively. Identity-based authentication was evaluated over 1000 sessions, and bitstream-payload processing over 30 payload sizes. Unless otherwise stated, reported software timings are measured execution times of the SAEID implementation. Published AgEID measurements are used only as reference baselines where comparison is relevant. These include 19.4 ms per bilinear pairing, 6 .2 × 10 −3 ms per scalar multiplication, 3 .01 × 10 −3 ms per point addition, published membership-update results, the reported 401 ms ARM Cortex-A9 decryption result, and published FPGA resource figures. These values were not re-measured in the present work. For embedded evaluation, the SAEID software was cross-compiled and executed on a physical Xilinx ZC702 platform based on the Zynq-7000 xc7z020clg484-1 device with an ARM Cortex-A9 processor. The evaluation executes the com-plete Setup /KeyGen /Extract /Encrypt / Decrypt path and evaluates recovery of the aggregate-protected deployment secret and the corresponding AES-256 deployment key for authorized and unauthorized devices. A separate synthesizable RTL implementation of the elliptic-curve scalar-multiplication component was evaluated using Vivado 2019.1 on the same xc7z020clg484-1 device. The RTL implements the ECC arithmetic required for scalar multiplication but does not include a bilinear pairing engine. Accordingly, its resource utilization and post-implementation timing are reported as an ECC-core evaluation rather than as a complete SAEID hardware accelerator. 24 Debnath et al.               

> Table 6. Measured Cryptographic Operation Latency of SAEID
> Operation Mean Time (ms)
> Bilinear pairing 0.702 Scalar multiplication 0.954 Point addition 0.0030 Hash-to-group ( 𝐻 1/𝐻 2)2.188 SHA-256 ( 𝐻 3input) 0.0008
> SAEID.Extract ,|𝑆 𝑣 |=1000 4.477
> SAEID.Encrypt 3.729
> SAEID.Decrypt , precomputed term 1.400

Aggregate-authorization communication measurements exclude encrypted bitstream payload transfer; payload-processing cost is evaluated separately as a function of payload size. 

7.2 Cryptographic Performance and Scalability 

The cryptographic evaluation measures the principal SAEID operations and examines the scalability of aggregate-key preparation and AES-key encryption with the number of authorized FPGA devices. The underlying pairing-group primitives are also measured to characterize the execution cost of the construction. Table 6 summarizes the measured primitive and cryptographic-operation latencies. A bilinear pairing requires 0.702 ms, while scalar multiplication and point addition require 0 .954 ms and 0 .0030 ms, respectively. Hash-to-group operations 𝐻 1/𝐻 2 require 2 .188 ms, while the SHA-256 operation used for session-key derivation requires approxi-mately 0 .0008 ms. At |𝑆 𝑣 | = 1000, SAEID.Extract requires 4 .477 ms and SAEID.Encrypt requires 3 .729 ms. With the authorization-dependent decryption term precomputed, SAEID.Decrypt requires 1 .400 ms. For a vendor-specific deployment set 𝑆 𝑣 , SAEID.Extract constructs the aggregate-authorization component by processing the selected devices and therefore scales with |𝑆 𝑣 |. Once this component is available, SAEID.Encrypt 

generates a fixed-size aggregate ciphertext using a constant number of cryptographic operations. The measured extraction time increases almost linearly from 10 to 10,000 authorized devices. A linear fit to the measured data gives 

𝑇 Extract ≈ 4.5046 × 10 −3 |𝑆 𝑣 | − 0.0151 ms , 𝑅 2 = 0.9999997 , (52) indicating that the measured scaling closely follows the expected linear growth with |𝑆 𝑣 |.At an authorization-set size of 10 ,000, the measured SAEID.Extract time is 45 .02 ms. This scalability experiment evaluates the software implementation with progressively larger logical authorization sets. It does not represent a physical deployment of 10 ,000 FPGA devices. In contrast, SAEID.Encrypt remains approximately constant over the same range, with measured values between 3 .73 and 3 .74 ms. The fitted slope is approximately −0.38 ns per additional device and is negligible in magnitude. Thus, the online aggregate AES-key encryption cost is approximately independent of the number of authorized devices within a vendor domain. The software decryption time is 5 .901 ms when the authorization-dependent term is computed online, reducing to 1 .400 ms with precomputation for a 1000-device set. Thus, after precomputation, the online decryption cost is approximately independent of the authorized-set size. The corresponding ZC702 measurement is reported in Section 7.4. Overall, the measurements show that the principal device-set-dependent cost lies in aggregate-key preparation, while online encryption and precomputed-term decryption remain approximately constant. The published AgEID pairing latency of 19 .4 ms is used only as a reference because it was obtained on a different platform and implementation. SAEID: Secure Aggregate Encryption for Multi-Vendor FPGA Cloud Deployment 25 10 50 100 500 1000 5000 10000 10 −1

10 0

10 1

10 2

Number of Authorized FPGA Devices Execution Time (ms)  SAEID.Extract SAEID.Encrypt         

> Fig. 6. Measured scalability of SAEID aggregate-key extraction and online AES-key encryption with increasing numbers of authorized FPGA devices. Extraction scales linearly, whereas online encryption remains approximately constant. Table 7. Measured Dynamic Membership Update Overhead of SAEID
> Operation Time Range ( 𝜇 s) Scaling
> Device addition 4.95–5.09 𝑂 (1)
> Device revocation 4.49–5.46 𝑂 (1)

7.3 Deployment, Security, Communication, and Storage Evaluation 

This evaluation measures the deployment-level overhead of SAEID, including dynamic membership, authorization metadata, cryptographic storage, device authentication, and device-bound bitstream integrity. The analytical scaling relationships are established in Sections 6.1–6.2; the present section focuses on their measured overheads. 

Dynamic membership. Device addition and revocation modify only the affected vendor-specific aggregate-authorization component. As shown in Table 7, the measured update times remain approximately constant over the evaluated deployment sizes: device addition requires 4 .95–5 .09 𝜇 s, while revocation requires 4 .49–5 .46 𝜇 s. The reported update cost excludes provisioning and identity-key generation for newly enrolled devices. Unaffected devices require no credential regeneration, and previously generated ciphertexts are not re-encrypted solely because of a membership update. 

Communication and storage overhead. Each vendor-specific aggregate ciphertext contains three group elements and occupies 384 B in the implementation. The identity-based authentication (IBA) proof contains two group elements and adds 256 B per authenticated device session. The following communication expressions account for the aggregate ciphertext and IBA proof only; session-binding fields, nonces/timestamps, and bitstream-signature metadata are excluded. Thus, for 𝑉 participating vendor domains and one authenticated device session, 

𝐶 auth = (384 𝑉 + 256 ) B. (53) For 𝑁 auth authenticated device sessions, the corresponding authorization metadata is 

𝐶 meta = (384 𝑉 + 256 𝑁 auth ) B. (54) 26 Debnath et al. 

Table 8. Communication Overhead of SAEID Authorization Metadata             

> Vendor Domains Aggregate Ciphertext (B) + IBA Proof (B)
> 1384 640 2768 1024 31152 1408 51920 2176 10 3840 4096

Table 9. Storage Requirements of AgEID and SAEID                             

> Storage Component AgEID SAEID
> Individual decryption key 1 group element 1 group element Identity-based device key –1 group element Certificate / certificate chain ––Vendor provisioning records 𝑂 (𝑛 𝑣 )𝑂 (𝑛 𝑣 )
> Provider identity key –1 per registered provider–vendor domain CSP deployment metadata 𝑂 ( | 𝑆 | ) 𝑂 ( | 𝑆 𝑐 | ) + 𝑂 (𝑉 )
> Freshness state –𝑂 (1)/device

Table 10. Measured Device Authentication and Bitstream-Verification Overhead      

> Operation Measured Time (ms)
> IBA device response 1.968 IBA verifier verification 2.382 Identity-bound signature generation 1.98 Identity-bound signature verification 2.40

Hence, authorization metadata grows with the number of participating vendor domains and authenticated sessions, but remains independent of the number of devices represented within each vendor-specific aggregate ciphertext. The encrypted bitstream payload is excluded from 𝐶 auth and 𝐶 meta because its size depends on the target architecture and application. Table 8 summarizes the communication overhead of SAEID authorization metadata. At each FPGA device, SAEID stores one individual decryption key and one identity-based private key, resulting in constant device-resident cryptographic state with respect to deployment size, as shown in Table 9. Infrastructure-side provisioning records scale with the number of enrolled devices, while provider identity credentials scale with the number of registered provider–vendor domains. 

Authentication and bitstream integrity. The complete software implementation of the certificate-free identity-based authentication and identity-bound signature mechanisms was evaluated on the Intel Core i5-8500 platform. As shown in Table 10, the measured IBA device response is 1 .968 ms, while provider-side verification requires 2 .382 ms. Identity-bound signature generation and verification require approximately 1 .98 ms and 2 .40 ms, respectively. Across 1000 authentication sessions, all valid device responses were accepted. Negative tests involving incorrect device identities, modified proof components, modified challenges, and replayed responses were rejected. For bitstream integrity, modified or substituted payloads, tampered AES-GCM tags, incorrect target devices, incorrect providers, and modified release metadata were rejected in all seven tested negative cases. For 𝜇 architecture-specific variants, identity-bound signatures are generated for the required variant–device associa-tions during deployment preparation. When signatures are generated independently for each variant–device pair, this workload is 𝑂 (𝜇 |𝑆 𝑣 |) for vendor domain 𝑣 , while verification remains 𝑂 (1) per deployed variant. This cost is separate from the constant-cost authentication of an individual device session. SAEID: Secure Aggregate Encryption for Multi-Vendor FPGA Cloud Deployment 27 

Table 11. Embedded ARM Cortex-A9 Decryption Performance     

> Platform / Implementation Decrypt() (ms)
> SAEID on ZC702 Cortex-A9 191.126 AgEID reported Cortex-A9 401

Table 12. FPGA Resource Utilization of the SAEID ECC Scalar-Multiplication Core          

> Metric SAEID ECC Core
> LUT utilization 45.93% Register utilization 17.97% Slice utilization 70.14% DSP utilization 0% Block RAM utilization 0.36% Power 0.615 W †
> Timing at 100 MHz Not met Estimated frequency ∼20.8 MHz ‡†Vivado vectorless estimate.
> ‡Estimated from the post-implementation timing result.

7.4 Embedded FPGA Evaluation and Resource Utilization 

The embedded evaluation validates the SAEID cryptographic path on the Xilinx ZC702 platform, which uses a Zynq-7000 XC7Z020 device with an ARM Cortex-A9 processor. The complete SAEID software path comprising Setup , KeyGen ,

Extract , Encrypt , and Decrypt was cross-compiled for ARM and executed on the physical Cortex-A9 processor using GMP and PBC. Functional tests confirmed that an authorized device successfully recovers the protected AES key 𝑚 ,whereas an unauthorized device fails the corresponding recovery operation. For the complete software Decrypt() operation, including the two bilinear pairings, the measured execution time on the ZC702 is 191 .126 ms, as shown in Table 11. The AgEID study reports 401 ms for its Cortex-A9 decryption path. This value is retained only as a reference because the implementation and build configurations are not identical. The present ARM build uses GMP compiled without ARM assembly optimization, so the measured value represents the current implementation rather than an optimized Cortex-A9 performance limit. In addition to the embedded software evaluation, a synthesizable RTL implementation of the elliptic-curve scalar-multiplication component was developed and evaluated using Vivado 2019.1 for the xc7z020clg484-1 device. The RTL evaluation focuses on this cryptographic primitive; a complete hardware accelerator for the SAEID protocol was not implemented. The core implements the elliptic-curve arithmetic underlying the scalar-multiplication operations used in SAEID key generation and aggregate-key computation. Jacobian-coordinate point doubling, mixed point addition, modular multiplication, and modular inversion were verified against the PBC software implementation. Eight full 160-bit scalar-multiplication functional tests achieved bit-exact agreement with PBC, while the modular multiplication and inversion regression tests achieved 10/10 successful cases. The post-implementation resource utilization is summarized in Table 12. The design uses a 512-bit modular-arithmetic datapath and does not use DSP blocks. The reported power is a Vivado vectorless estimate rather than a physical-board measurement. The implementation has a worst negative slack of approximately −38 .046 ns for the 100-MHz constraint. This timing limitation is associated with the wide, unpipelined modular-arithmetic paths in the current correctness-oriented 28 Debnath et al. design. Further pipelining and architectural optimization could reduce the critical-path delay and improve the timing characteristics; the resulting resource impact would depend on the implementation architecture. The AgEID study reports 2–17% LUT, 1–13% register, and 1–4% slice overhead, with approximately 0.1–0.2 W power. These values are retained only as reference values because the architectural details and measurement conditions of the AgEID hardware implementation are not sufficiently specified for a direct resource comparison. Moreover, the present RTL implements only the ECC scalar-multiplication component; the bilinear pairing engine required for a complete hardware cryptographic accelerator was not synthesized. Thus, the FPGA resource results characterize the implemented SAEID ECC component, while the ZC702 result demonstrates the complete software decryption path on real embedded hardware. 

8 Discussion 

The results show that SAEID preserves the scalable aggregate-authorization property of AgEID while extending it to heterogeneous multi-vendor deployment. Aggregate-key preparation grows with the authorized set size, whereas online aggregate AES-key encryption remains approximately independent of the number of devices within a vendor domain. Dynamic membership updates likewise remain effectively constant-cost, and the encryption workload grows with the number of participating vendor domains, consistent with the 𝑂 (𝑉 ) construction. The additional identity-based authentication and bitstream-integrity mechanisms introduce bounded software overhead. The complete authentication exchange requires approximately 4 .35 ms, while identity-bound signature generation and verification require approximately 1 .98 ms and 2 .40 ms, respectively. The communication overhead is also separated by deployment factor: aggregate ciphertext metadata scales with vendor domains, authentication metadata with authenticated sessions, and bitstream payload size with the target architecture. The embedded evaluation confirms that the aggregate-encryption software path executes on the ZC702 Cortex-A9, while the RTL results validate the implemented ECC scalar-multiplication component. The latter should be interpreted as a component-level evaluation because a complete bilinear pairing accelerator was not implemented. Similarly, the 10,000-device scalability result represents a software evaluation with a large logical authorization set rather than a physical deployment of 10,000 FPGAs. A direct quantitative comparison with prior FPGA-security implementations is limited by differences in cryptographic primitives, platforms, and measurement conditions. The AgEID Cortex-A9 result is therefore retained only as a reference baseline. The main remaining limitations are the current ECC hardware implementation and the absence of continuous runtime integrity and hardware-rooted attestation, which are outside the scope of the present work. 

9 Conclusion 

This paper presented SAEID, an extension of AgEID for secure FPGA bitstream deployment in heterogeneous multi-vendor cloud environments. SAEID extends aggregate authorization with capability-aware deployment, multiple IP providers, dynamic device membership, and certificate-free identity-based device authentication and device-bound bitstream verification, while retaining individual device recovery within each vendor domain. The evaluation validates the proposed framework through software, embedded, and RTL experiments. The results confirm the expected scaling behavior of aggregate authorization and dynamic membership, and the complete software decryption path was validated on the ZC702 Cortex-A9 platform. The RTL evaluation further validates the ECC scalar-multiplication component used by the cryptographic construction. The current hardware evaluation is limited to the ECC scalar-multiplication component and does not include a complete bilinear pairing engine. Future work will therefore focus on a complete SAEID: Secure Aggregate Encryption for Multi-Vendor FPGA Cloud Deployment 29 hardware cryptographic accelerator, together with hardware-rooted attestation and continuous post-configuration runtime security. 

Acknowledgments 

We would like to thank the Department of Science and Technology (DST), Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Government of India, for supporting this work under Grant No. CRG/2018/2093. 

References 

[1] M. Debnath, K. Guha, D. Saha, and S. Sur-Kolay, “Aggregate Encryption Individual Decryption for FPGA Bitstream Protection on Cloud,” in 2024 International Symposium on Secure and Private Execution Environment Design (SEED) , 2024, pp. 155–166. [2] AMD/Xilinx, “Zynq UltraScale+ MPSoC: Technical Reference Manual (UG1085) – Secure Boot, Authentication, and Encryption,” AMD-Xilinx Inc., 2023. [3] S. Drimer, “Authentication of FPGA Bitstreams: Why and How,” in Applied Reconfigurable Computing (ARC) , LNCS 4419, pp. 73–84, 2007. [4] F. Hess, “Efficient Identity Based Signature Schemes Based on Pairings,” in Selected Areas in Cryptography (SAC) , LNCS 2595, pp. 310–324, 2002. [5] J. Malone-Lee, “Identity Based Signcryption,” IACR Cryptology ePrint Archive , Report 2002/098, 2002. [6] B. Libert and J.-J. Quisquater, “New Identity Based Signcryption Schemes from Pairings,” in IEEE Information Theory Workshop (ITW) , pp. 155–158, 2003. [7] X. Boyen, “Multipurpose Identity-Based Signcryption: A Swiss Army Knife for Identity-Based Cryptography,” in CRYPTO , LNCS 2729, pp. 383–399, 2003. [8] U. Chatterjee, V. Govindan, R. Sadhukhan, D. Mukhopadhyay, R. S. Chakraborty, D. Mahata, and M. Prabhu, “PUF+IBE: Blending Physically Unclonable Functions with Identity Based Encryption for Authentication and Key Exchange in IoTs,” IACR Cryptology ePrint Archive , Report 2017/422, 2017. [9] A. Shamir, “Identity-Based Cryptosystems and Signature Schemes,” in CRYPTO , 1984. [10] D. Boneh and M. Franklin, “Identity-Based Encryption from the Weil Pairing,” in CRYPTO , 2001. [11] J. C. Cha and J. H. Cheon, “An Identity-Based Signature from Gap Diffie-Hellman Groups,” in Public Key Cryptography (PKC) , 2003. [12] R. Sakai and M. Kasahara, “ID Based Cryptosystems with Pairing on Elliptic Curve,” Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2003/054, 2003. [13] D. Boneh, C. Gentry, and B. Waters, “Collusion Resistant Broadcast Encryption with Short Ciphertexts and Private Keys,” in CRYPTO , 2005. [14] C. Guo, N. Luo, M. Z. A. Bhuiyan, Y. Jie, Y. Chen, B. Feng, and M. Alam, “Key-aggregate Authentication Cryptosystem for Data Sharing in Dynamic Cloud Storage,” Future Generation Computer Systems , 2018. [15] A. Bag, S. Patranabis, D. B. Roy, and D. Mukhopadhyay, “Cryptographically Secure Multi-tenant Provisioning of FPGAs,” in Security, Privacy, and Applied Cryptography Engineering , 2020. [16] S. Patranabis, Y. Shrivastava, and D. Mukhopadhyay, “Dynamic Key-Aggregate Cryptosystem on Elliptic Curves for Online Data Sharing,” in 

INDOCRYPT , 2015. [17] S. Patranabis, Y. Shrivastava, and D. Mukhopadhyay, “Provably Secure Key-Aggregate Cryptosystems with Broadcast Aggregate Keys for Online Data Sharing on the Cloud,” IEEE Transactions on Computers , vol. 66, pp. 891–904, 2017. [18] T. Hoque et al. , “Hidden in Plaintext: An Obfuscation-Based Countermeasure against FPGA Bitstream Tampering Attacks,” ACM Transactions on Design Automation of Electronic Systems , 2019. [19] P. Swierczynski, G. T. Becker, A. Moradi, and C. Paar, “Bitstream Fault Injections (BiFI) – Automated Fault Attacks Against SRAM-Based FPGAs,” 

IEEE Transactions on Computers , 2018. [20] S. Drimer and M. G. Kuhn, “A Protocol for Secure Remote Updates of FPGA Configurations,” in Reconfigurable Computing: Architectures, Tools and Applications , 2009. [21] B. Hong, H.-Y. Kim, M. Kim, T. Suh, L. Xu, and W. Shi, “FASTEN: An FPGA-Based Secure System for Big Data Processing,” IEEE Design & Test , 2018. [22] C. Jin, V. Gohil, R. Karri, and J. Rajendran, “Security of Cloud FPGAs: A Survey,” CoRR , 2020. [23] S. Zeitouni, G. Dessouky, and A.-R. Sadeghi, “On the Security Challenges and Risks of Multi-Tenant FPGAs in the Cloud,” CoRR , 2020. [24] T. Güneysu, B. Möller, and C. Paar, “Dynamic Intellectual Property Protection for Reconfigurable Devices,” in FPT , 2007. [25] K. Eguro and R. Venkatesan, “FPGAs for Trusted Cloud Computing,” in Field Programmable Logic and Applications (FPL) , 2012. [26] R. Maes, D. Schellekens, and I. Verbauwhede, “A Pay-per-Use Licensing Scheme for Hardware IP Cores in Recent SRAM-Based FPGAs,” IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics and Security , 2012. [27] F. Turan and I. Verbauwhede, “Proxy Re-Encryption for Accelerator Confidentiality in FPGA-Accelerated Cloud,” Cryptology ePrint Archive , 2020. [28] S. Trimberger and J. Moore, “FPGA Security: From Features to Capabilities to Trusted Systems,” in DAC , 2014. [29] S. Trimberger, J. Moore, and W. Lu, “Authenticated Encryption for FPGA Bitstreams,” in FPGA , 2011. [30] S. Zeitouni, J. Vliegen, T. Frassetto, D. Koch, A.-R. Sadeghi, and N. Mentens, “Trusted Configuration in Cloud FPGAs,” in FCCM , 2021. [31] F. Turan and I. Verbauwhede, “Trust in FPGA-Accelerated Cloud Computing,” ACM Computing Surveys , 2021. 30 Debnath et al. 

[32] H.-Y. Kim, R. Myung, B. Hong, H. Yu, T. Suh, L. Xu, and W. Shi, “SafeDB: Spark Acceleration on FPGA Clouds with Enclaved Data Processing and Bitstream Protection,” in CLOUD , 2019. [33] D. Saha and S. Sur-Kolay, FPGA-Based IP and SoC Security , Springer International Publishing, 2017. [34] J. Cong, M. Huang, D. Wu, and C. H. Yu, “Invited – Heterogeneous Datacenters: Options and Opportunities,” in DAC , 2016. [35] D. Hutchings, A. Taylor, and J. Goeders, “Toward FPGA Intellectual Property Encryption from Netlist to Bitstream,” ACM Trans. Reconfigurable Technol. Syst. , vol. 18, no. 1, Article 1, Dec. 2024. [36] M. Kawser Ahmed, M. Panoff Kealoha, J. Mandebi Mbongue, S. K. Saha, E. Nghonda Tchinda, P. E. Mbua, and C. Bobda, “Multi-Tenant Cloud FPGA: A Survey on Security, Trust, and Privacy,” ACM Trans. Reconfigurable Technol. Syst. , vol. 18, no. 2, Article 23, 2025. [37] M. Majzoobi and F. Koushanfar, “Time-Bounded Authentication of FPGAs,” IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics and Security , vol. 6, no. 3, pp. 1123–1135, 2011. [38] M. Rostami, M. Majzoobi, F. Koushanfar, D. S. Wallach, and S. Devadas, “Robust and Reverse-Engineering Resilient PUF Authentication and Key-Exchange by Substring Matching,” IEEE Transactions on Emerging Topics in Computing , vol. 2, no. 1, pp. 37–49, 2014. [39] T. Kerins, E. Popovici, and W. Marnane, “Algorithms and Architectures for Use in FPGA Implementations of Identity Based Encryption Schemes,” in 

Field Programmable Logic and Applications (FPL) , LNCS, pp. 74–83, 2004. [40] K. Järvinen, J. Forstén, and J. Skyttä, “FPGA Design of Self-certified Signature Verification on Koblitz Curves,” in Cryptographic Hardware and Embedded Systems (CHES 2007) , LNCS 4727, pp. 256–271, 2007. [41] Q. Hu, M. R. Asghar, and N. Brownlee, “Checking certificate revocation efficiently using certificate revocation guard,” Journal of Information Security and Applications , vol. 48, 2019. [42] P. Singh, A. Basit, N. C. Kumar, and V. Ch. Venkaiah, “Towards a Hybrid Public Key Infrastructure (PKI): A Review,” Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2019/784, 2019. [43] B. Anggorojati, N. R. Prasad, and R. Prasad, “Capability-Based Access Control with ECC Key Management for the M2M Local Cloud Platform,” 

Wireless Personal Communications , vol. 100, pp. 519–538, 2018. [44] R. Skhiri, V. Fresse, J. P. Jamont, B. Suffran, and J. Malek, “From FPGA to Support Cloud to Cloud of FPGA: State of the Art,” International Journal of Reconfigurable Computing , vol. 2019, no. 1, Art. no. 8085461, 2019. 

A Correctness and Security Proof Sketches 

This appendix collects the correctness derivations and security proof sketches for the SAEID framework. The underlying aggregate-encryption construction is inherited from AgEID [1]; consequently, only the properties affected by multi-vendor authorization, dynamic membership, identity-based authentication, and device-bound bitstream protection are derived here. Standard properties of bilinear pairings, the underlying cryptographic hardness assumptions, and the security of AES-GCM are used without restating their definitions. Notation, the system and threat models, and the protocol definitions follow the main body of the paper (Section 3 onward). 

A.1 Correctness of Aggregate Decryption 

Let 𝑆 𝑐,𝑣 denote the authorized device set associated with vendor 𝑣 . For an authorized device 𝑖 ∈ 𝑆 𝑐,𝑣 , the aggregate decryption procedure recovers the group-valued deployment secret 𝑚 𝐺 ∈ 𝐺 𝑇 as 

b𝑚 𝐺 = 𝑐 3 · ˆ𝑒  𝑑 𝑣,𝑖 + 𝑏 𝑖,𝑆 𝑐,𝑣 , 𝑐 1



ˆ𝑒  𝑔 𝑣,𝑖 , 𝑐 2

 . (55) Theorem 1 (Aggregate-Decryption Correctness). For every authorized device 𝑖 ∈ 𝑆 𝑐,𝑣 , decryption of a ciphertext generated for 𝑆 𝑐,𝑣 recovers the original group-valued deployment secret 𝑚 𝐺 .

Proof sketch. Substituting the definitions of 𝑑 𝑣,𝑖 , 𝑏 𝑖,𝑆 𝑐,𝑣 , 𝑐 1, 𝑐 2, and 

𝑐 3 = 𝑚 𝐺 · ˆ𝑒  𝑔 𝑣,𝑛 𝑣 , 𝑡𝑔 𝑣, 1



into Eq. (55), and applying bilinearity of ˆ 𝑒 (· , ·) , the terms introduced by the aggregate- authorization component cancel through the same telescoping argument as in the underlying AgEID construction. The remaining pairing factor cancels SAEID: Secure Aggregate Encryption for Multi-Vendor FPGA Cloud Deployment 31 the masking factor in 𝑐 3, yielding 

b𝑚 𝐺 = 𝑚 𝐺 · ˆ𝑒 (𝑔 𝑣,𝑛 𝑣 , 𝑡𝑔 𝑣, 1)

ˆ𝑒 (𝑔 𝑣,𝑛 𝑣 , 𝑡𝑔 𝑣, 1) = 𝑚 𝐺 . (56) Hence, every authorized device recovers the same group-valued deployment secret 𝑚 𝐺 . □

After recovering 𝑚 𝐺 , the device derives the AES-256 deployment key as 

b𝐾 AES = SHA256  Serialize 𝐺 𝑇 ( b𝑚 𝐺 ) . (57) Since b𝑚 𝐺 = 𝑚 𝐺 for an authorized device, 

b𝐾 AES = 𝐾 AES . (58) 

A.2 Deployment-Secret Confidentiality 

Theorem 2 (Deployment-Secret Confidentiality). Under the BDHE assumption underlying the aggregate-encryption construction, an adversary that does not possess the authorization required for the target deployment cannot distinguish the protected group-valued deployment secret 𝑚 𝐺 ∈ 𝐺 𝑇 from a random element of 𝐺 𝑇 except with negligible probability. 

Proof sketch. SAEID preserves the aggregate-encryption algebra of the underlying construction. In particular, 

𝑐 3 = 𝑚 𝐺 · ˆ𝑒 (𝑔 𝑣,𝑛 𝑣 , 𝑡𝑔 𝑣, 1)

uses the same pairing-based masking structure as the underlying aggregate-encryption scheme, with the protected plaintext represented as a group element in 𝐺 𝑇 .A simulator can embed a BDHE challenge into the aggregate-encryption public parameters and challenge ciphertext. Any adversary that distinguishes the protected 𝑚 𝐺 from a random element with non-negligible advantage would therefore yield a non-negligible advantage against the underlying BDHE-based aggregate-encryption security game. Hence, Adv IND-CPA SAEID (A) ≤ Adv BDHE (B) + negl (𝜆 ). (59) Thus, 𝑚 𝐺 remains confidential to unauthorized entities. □

The AES-256 deployment key is not exposed directly to the aggregate-encryption layer. Instead, both provider and authorized device derive it from the group-valued secret using 

𝐾 AES = SHA256  Serialize 𝐺 𝑇 (𝑚 𝐺 ) .

Consequently, only an entity that successfully recovers the authorized 𝑚 𝐺 can derive the corresponding 𝐾 AES . The protected architecture-specific variants are then confidential under AES-256-GCM, assuming unique IVs for encryptions performed under the same key. 

A.3 Authentication Soundness and Replay Resistance 

For device identity 𝐼𝐷 𝑣,𝑖 , let 𝑄 𝑣,𝑖 = 𝐻 1 (𝐼𝐷 𝑣,𝑖 ) and let 𝑆𝐾𝐼𝐷 𝑣,𝑖 denote the corresponding identity private key. For a fresh 

(𝑁 , 𝜏 ), the device selects 𝑟 and computes 

𝑈 = 𝑟𝑄 𝑣,𝑖 , ℎ = 𝐻 2

 𝐼𝐷 𝑣,𝑖 ∥ 𝑁 ∥ 𝜏 ∥ 𝑈 , (60) 32 Debnath et al. followed by the response 

𝑉 = (𝑟 + ℎ) 𝑆𝐾𝐼𝐷 𝑣,𝑖 . (61) The verifier checks ˆ𝑒 (𝑔, 𝑉 ) ?

= ˆ𝑒  𝑃 pub ,𝑣 , 𝑈 + ℎ𝑄 𝑣,𝑖 

. (62) The replay-resistance argument assumes that the freshness state used to validate 𝑁 and 𝜏 is maintained in trusted persistent storage across ordinary power cycles and FPGA reconfiguration. Loss or rollback of this state is outside the present threat model. Theorem 3 (Authentication Soundness and Authentication-Transcript Replay Resistance). In the random-oracle model, an adversary without the target device’s identity private key cannot produce an accepted proof for a fresh challenge except with negligible probability. A previously observed authentication transcript cannot be replayed successfully in a fresh session. 

Proof sketch. For an honestly generated response, bilinearity of the pairing gives ˆ𝑒 (𝑔, 𝑉 ) = ˆ𝑒 (𝑔, 𝑆𝐾𝐼𝐷 𝑣,𝑖 ) 𝑟 +ℎ = ˆ𝑒  𝑃 pub ,𝑣 , 𝑈 + ℎ𝑄 𝑣,𝑖 

, (63) so the verification equation in Eq. (62) holds. For an adversary, producing a valid response for a fresh Fiat–Shamir challenge without the corresponding identity key contradicts the soundness of the underlying identity-based proof in the random-oracle model, under the stated hardness assumption. Moreover, the challenge contains the fresh values 𝑁 and 𝜏 ; therefore, a response from an earlier session is bound to a different challenge and cannot be directly replayed. □

A.4 Authenticated Session Binding 

Following successful device authentication, the provider and device derive the shared pairing value 

𝐾 𝑣,𝑖,𝑝 = ˆ𝑒 



𝑆𝐾 𝐼 𝐷 𝑣,𝑖 , 𝑄 (𝑣 )

> 𝑝



= ˆ𝑒 



𝑄 𝑣,𝑖 , 𝑆𝐾 (𝑣 )

> 𝐼 𝐷 𝑝



. (64) The authenticated session key is then derived as 

𝐾 sess ,𝑣,𝑖 = 𝐻 3



𝐾 𝑣,𝑖,𝑝 ∥ 𝐼𝐷 𝑣,𝑖 ∥ 𝐼𝐷 (𝑣 ) 

> 𝑝

∥ 𝑁 𝑣,𝑖 ∥ 𝜏 𝑣,𝑖 



. (65) Theorem 4 (Authenticated Session Binding). Assuming the security of 𝐻 3 and the underlying MAC, an adversary that does not possess the authenticated session key 𝐾 sess ,𝑣,𝑖 cannot produce a valid session-binding tag for a modified, redirected, or cross-session aggregate ciphertext except with negligible probability. 

Proof sketch. The session key is derived from the authenticated shared pairing value 𝐾 𝑣,𝑖,𝑝 , the identities of the target device and provider, and the fresh session values 𝑁 𝑣,𝑖 and 𝜏 𝑣,𝑖 . Thus, under the authentication and freshness guarantees of Theorem 3, an adversary cannot obtain or reuse the session key associated with a different authenticated session or identity context except with negligible probability. The tag input 𝐷 𝑣,𝑖 additionally includes the provider identity, target-device identity, vendor domain, capability class, fresh session values, and aggregate ciphertext. Consequently, modifying any of these fields changes the MAC input. Producing a valid tag for the modified context, or reusing a tag from another session or deployment context, would therefore constitute a successful forgery against the underlying MAC. Hence, a modified, redirected, or cross-session aggregate ciphertext is rejected except with negligible probability. □SAEID: Secure Aggregate Encryption for Multi-Vendor FPGA Cloud Deployment 33 

A.5 Bitstream Integrity and Device Binding 

For each protected architecture-specific variant Ct (𝑘 ) intended for FPGA 𝑣,𝑖 , the registered provider generates an identity-bound proof using its vendor-scoped identity private key SK (𝑣 ) 

> ID 𝑝

. The provider first samples fresh randomness 𝑟 ′ 𝑅 

←− Z𝑝 

and computes 

𝑈 (𝑘 ) 

> 𝜎

= 𝑟 ′𝑄 (𝑣 ) 

> 𝑝

, (66) where 𝑄 (𝑣 ) 

> 𝑝

= 𝐻 1 (𝐼𝐷 (𝑣 ) 

> 𝑝

) is the provider’s identity point. The Fiat–Shamir challenge binds the provider identity, target-device identity, encrypted payload, release metadata, and the proof commitment: 

ℎ(𝑘 ) 

> 𝜎

= 𝐻 2



𝐼𝐷 (𝑣 ) 

> 𝑝

∥ 𝐼𝐷 𝑣,𝑖 ∥ Ct (𝑘 ) ∥ Hdr (𝑘 ) ∥ 𝑈 (𝑘 )

> 𝜎



. (67) The provider computes the response 

𝑉 (𝑘 ) 

> 𝜎

=



𝑟 ′ + ℎ(𝑘 )

> 𝜎



SK (𝑣 ) 

> ID 𝑝

. (68) The resulting identity-bound signature is 

𝜎 (𝑘 ) 

> 𝑝,𝑣,𝑖

=



𝑈 (𝑘 ) 

> 𝜎

, 𝑉 (𝑘 )

> 𝜎



. (69) At the target FPGA, the device recomputes 𝑄 (𝑣 ) 

> 𝑝

= 𝐻 1 (𝐼𝐷 (𝑣 ) 

> 𝑝

) and ℎ(𝑘 ) 

> 𝜎

and accepts the signature only if ˆ𝑒 



𝑔, 𝑉 (𝑘 )

> 𝜎

 ?

= ˆ𝑒 



𝑃 pub ,𝑣 , 𝑈 (𝑘 ) 

> 𝜎

+ ℎ(𝑘 ) 

> 𝜎

𝑄 (𝑣 )

> 𝑝



. (70) For an honestly generated signature, SK (𝑣 ) 

> ID 𝑝

= 𝑠 𝑣 𝑄 (𝑣 ) 

> 𝑝

and 𝑃 pub ,𝑣 = 𝑠 𝑣 𝑔 . Therefore, by bilinearity, ˆ𝑒 (𝑔, 𝑉 (𝑘 ) 

> 𝜎

) = ˆ𝑒 



𝑔, (𝑟 ′ + ℎ(𝑘 ) 

> 𝜎

)SK (𝑣 )

> ID 𝑝



(71) 

= ˆ𝑒 



𝑃 pub ,𝑣 , (𝑟 ′ + ℎ(𝑘 ) 

> 𝜎

)𝑄 (𝑣 )

> 𝑝



(72) 

= ˆ𝑒 



𝑃 pub ,𝑣 , 𝑈 (𝑘 ) 

> 𝜎

+ ℎ(𝑘 ) 

> 𝜎

𝑄 (𝑣 )

> 𝑝



, (73) since 𝑈 (𝑘 ) 

> 𝜎

= 𝑟 ′𝑄 (𝑣 ) 

> 𝑝

. Hence, an honestly generated signature satisfies Eq. (70). Theorem 5 (Bitstream Integrity and Device Binding). Assuming unforgeability of the identity-bound provider proof and authenticity of AES-GCM, an adversary cannot modify, substitute, or redirect a protected bitstream to another target device while causing it to be accepted, except with negligible probability. 

Proof sketch. The challenge in Eq. (67) cryptographically binds the provider identity, target-device identity, encrypted payload, release metadata, and proof commitment. Therefore, redirecting a valid signature to another target device changes the challenge through 𝐼𝐷 𝑣,𝑖 and invalidates the verification equation. Similarly, modifying or substituting Ct (𝑘 ) or Hdr (𝑘 ) changes ℎ(𝑘 ) 

> 𝜎

and requires the adversary to produce a valid response without the corresponding provider identity private key, contradicting the assumed unforgeability of the identity-bound provider proof. An adversary that attempts to modify the encrypted bitstream payload without generating a corresponding valid provider proof is likewise rejected by signature verification. Even if a modified ciphertext is presented with a syntactically 34 Debnath et al. valid signature component, the AES-GCM authentication tag detects any unauthorized modification of the encrypted payload, except with negligible probability under the authenticity of AES-GCM. Hence, a protected bitstream is accepted only when the provider identity, intended target device, encrypted payload, and release metadata jointly satisfy the identity-bound verification and authenticated-encryption checks. These checks are performed before bitstream decryption and FPGA configuration. □

A.6 Dynamic-Membership Security 

For a vendor-specific authorized set 𝑆 𝑐,𝑣 , membership changes update only the corresponding aggregate-authorization component: 

𝐾 𝑆 𝑐,𝑣 ∪{ 𝑖 ′ }, 𝑣 = 𝐾 𝑆 𝑐,𝑣 , 𝑣 + Δadd  

> 𝑣,𝑖 ′

, 𝐾 𝑆 𝑐,𝑣 \{ 𝑖 ∗ }, 𝑣 = 𝐾 𝑆 𝑐,𝑣 , 𝑣 − Δrev  

> 𝑣,𝑖 ∗

. (74) Let 𝐾 (𝑒 ) 

> 𝑆 𝑐,𝑣 ,𝑣

denote the aggregate-authorization state associated with membership epoch 𝑒 . A membership change creates a new epoch, and subsequently generated ciphertexts use the updated authorization state. Previously generated ciphertexts remain associated with their original membership epoch. Theorem 6 (Forward and Backward Membership Security). A revoked device cannot decrypt ciphertexts generated after its revocation, while a newly enrolled device cannot decrypt ciphertexts generated before its enrollment, except with negligible probability under the underlying aggregate-encryption security assumption. 

Proof sketch. Revocation removes the corresponding device contribution from the aggregate-authorization struc-ture used for subsequent membership epochs (Eq. (74)). Thus, a revoked device lacks the authorization relation required to recover the group-valued deployment secret 𝑚 𝐺 protected under a subsequently generated ciphertext. Conversely, a newly enrolled device is absent from the authorization structures associated with earlier epochs and therefore cannot use its newly issued credentials to recover the deployment secrets protected under earlier ciphertexts. The update itself requires only a constant number of group operations. Provisioning and identity-key generation for a newly enrolled device are separate enrollment operations. These guarantees apply to ciphertexts generated under the corresponding membership epochs and do not revoke plaintext, deployment secrets, or bitstreams that an authorized device legitimately obtained before its revocation. □

A.7 Multi-Vendor, Multi-Provider, and CSP Isolation 

Theorem 7 (Domain Isolation and CSP Security). Under the SAEID key-separation model, compromise of one vendor or provider domain does not directly provide the cryptographic capability to decrypt or forge information belonging to another independent domain. A CSP-only adversary likewise cannot recover protected AES keys, forge an authenticated deployment session, or cause a modified bitstream to be accepted, except with negligible probability. 

Proof sketch. Each vendor maintains separate aggregate-encryption and identity cryptographic domains, based on independent secrets 𝛾 𝑣 and 𝑠 𝑣 , respectively. Therefore, authorization material from one vendor domain is not interchangeable with that of another vendor. Provider credentials are similarly scoped to their registered identity domains and cannot be used to authenticate another provider. A CSP observes ciphertexts, deployment metadata, and protocol messages but does not possess vendor master secrets, identity-authority secrets, or device private keys. AES-key confidentiality follows from Theorem 2, device authentication and authentication-transcript replay resistance from Theorem 3, authenticated session binding from Theorem 4, and bitstream integrity and device binding from Theorem 5. Hence, successful cross-domain decryption, SAEID: Secure Aggregate Encryption for Multi-Vendor FPGA Cloud Deployment 35 device or provider impersonation, session-binding forgery, or unauthorized bitstream modification would require compromise of protected domain secrets or a break of the corresponding cryptographic primitive. □

A.8 Composition of Security Properties 

The SAEID security properties rely on distinct cryptographic mechanisms and their corresponding security assumptions. Aggregate encryption protects the deployment AES key 𝑚 under the vendor-specific aggregate-encryption secret 𝛾 𝑣 ,while device authentication and identity-bound provider signatures use the vendor identity secret 𝑠 𝑣 . The session-binding key 𝐾 sess ,𝑣,𝑖 is derived from the authenticated device–provider exchange and is used only to authenticate the deployment context. The architecture-specific bitstream variants are subsequently protected using AES-256-GCM under 

𝑚 .These mechanisms provide complementary security guarantees. The aggregate-encryption layer establishes con-fidentiality of 𝑚 and authorization for the selected device set. The identity-based authentication layer establishes the identity of the participating device, while the identity-bound provider proof binds the protected bitstream to the registered provider and intended target device. The session-binding MAC additionally binds the aggregate ciphertext to the authenticated deployment context and fresh session values. AES-GCM provides authenticated protection of the encrypted bitstream payload. Under the stated key-separation, freshness, aggregate-encryption, identity proof, MAC, and AES-GCM security assumptions, an end-to-end security violation must result from the failure of at least one of the corresponding underlying mechanisms. Thus, the overall failure probability can be bounded by the union of the failure probabilities of the individual security mechanisms. The composition does not require the CSP to be trusted, since the CSP does not possess the vendor master secrets, identity private keys, provider credentials, session keys, or deployment AES key. The individual security arguments established in this appendix therefore cover the principal security properties of the SAEID deployment workflow: AES-key confidentiality, device authentication and replay resistance, authenticated session binding, bitstream integrity and device binding, dynamic-membership security, and multi-vendor, multi-provider, and CSP isolation. 

A.9 Summary of Security Guarantees 

Table 13 summarizes the principal security properties established by the arguments above.