Enforcement of In-Kernel Stateful Security Policies via eBPF∗
Extended Version
Letterio Galletta
IMT School for Advanced Studies Lucca
Lucca, Italy
letterio.galletta@imtlucca.it
Abstract
Many attacks against workloads running on multi-tenant systems
are multi-step and history-dependent: sequences of innocuous op-
erations whose malicious nature emerges only over an execution
trace. Defending against them requires security policies that are
stateful, are enforced within the kernel, and have a precise semantics.
Currently deployed proposals fail on at least one count: kernel’s
built-in syscall filtering and classical MAC frameworks are state-
less, while current eBPF-based tools express their policies through
ad hoc YAML rules that cannot capture temporal relations among
events, and whose semantics is defined only by the implementation.
We present BPFence, an in-kernel runtime-verification frame-
work that satisfies the properties above. BPFence provides a policy
language with a formal semantics that can express temporal rela-
tions among events. It also provides a type system that statically
distinguishes events the kernel can control from those it can only
observe. Every well-typed policy is compiled into a finite-state mon-
itor proved correct with respect to its semantics, and then into eBPF
programs that run inside the kernel. We evaluate BPFence on seven
case studies drawn from real-world attack patterns, and on a set
of micro- and macro-benchmarks to show that the enforcement
overhead remains compatible with production deployment.
1
Introduction
Cloud-native deployments rely on a single shared kernel to host
hundreds of mutually distrustful workloads: containers of different
tenants, microservices managed by an orchestrator, and short-lived
sandboxes spawned by build pipelines. In this setting, the kernel is
a critical isolation boundary, and a single compromised process can
become a foothold for container escape, lateral movement across
tenants, or persistent access to host resources. Operators rely on
security policies to constrain which operations a workload may
perform and keep that boundary effective. However, vulnerabilities
such as Dirty Pipe [42] witness how attackers can exploit the sys-
tem calls allowed by default container profiles to escalate from a
compromised application to host privileges by invoking operations
that look innocuous in isolation. What distinguishes such attacks
is that the malicious behavior is multi-step and history-dependent: a
write to a sensitive file followed by an exec syscall, or a successful
invocation of ptrace followed by a shell spawn. Containing these
attack chains or simply detecting them reliably requires security
policies that talk about execution traces, not just about individual
syscalls or system events.
∗This is the extended version of the paper appearing in Proc. ACM SIGSAC Conference
on Computer and Communications Security (CCS ’26). It includes the appendices with
the full formal development and the additional language constructs omitted from the
proceedings version.
In this setting, effective security policies must satisfy three com-
plementary requirements. First, they must be stateful: they need
to remember the relevant history of the monitored entity, e.g., a
process or a container, and react to sequences of events and time
windows. Second, the policy language must have a well-defined
semantics: the operator must be able to say what a policy denotes
independently of its implementation, and the toolchain must be
able to reject policies it cannot enforce, rather than silently accept-
ing them and producing a monitor whose behavior diverges from
the operator’s intent. Third, enforcement must happen inside the
kernel: a userspace monitor sits on the wrong side of the syscall
boundary, pays a context switch on every relevant event, and is
exposed to time-of-check/time-of-use races. In-kernel enforcement,
by contrast, mediates the operation synchronously, on the same
execution path that performs it, and observes exactly the arguments
the kernel will use. Unfortunately, the mechanisms practitioners
actually deploy fail to meet at least one of these three requirements.
On the one hand, system-call filters such as seccomp-bpf [27]
run entirely in the kernel, but their policies are stateless: a filter can-
not remember that the same process has just opened /etc/shadow.
Most production seccomp profiles, therefore, are simple static allow
lists. Mandatory access control frameworks such as SELinux [45]
and AppArmor [8] are more expressive, but their decisions are still
stateless with respect to recent history and their policies are noto-
riously hard to author and audit. On the other hand, modern eBPF-
based runtime security tools such as Falco [14] and Tetragon [9]
leverage programmable in-kernel storage and can react to security-
relevant events, providing the mechanisms for stateful monitoring.
However, they miss the second requirement: their policies are ex-
pressed through ad hoc YAML rules whose semantics is defined
only by the implementation: there is no specification of what a
rule denotes, no static check that a rule asks the kernel to enforce
something the kernel can in fact enforce. In addition, multi-step
and bounded-time properties must be encoded as collections of cor-
related rules whose joint behavior is left to the operator’s intuition.
These previous efforts show that the in-kernel machinery to
enforce programmable policy is already available, but what is still
missing is a policy layer that meets all requirements at once: ex-
pressive enough to talk about execution traces and time windows,
equipped with a semantics the toolchain and the operator can rea-
son about, and enforced inside the kernel.
Our proposal. This paper presents BPFence, an in-kernel runtime-
verification framework that meets the three requirements above.
BPFence offers a policy language with a formal trace semantics
whose constructs capture recurring classes of stateful security prop-
erties: safety obligations, bounded-response liveness, historical
predicates, sliding-window counts, and cross-event correlation. A
arXiv:2609.13930v1  [cs.CR]  12 Sep 2026


Letterio Galletta
type system distinguishes events the kernel can actually control
(deny or terminate before they take effect) from those it can only
observe, and statically rejects policies that ask the kernel to en-
force something it cannot. Each well-typed policy is compiled to a
monitor that is provably correct with respect to its semantics, and
then to eBPF programs that run inside the kernel. While related
ideas have appeared separately in prior work, BPFence is the first
framework to combine them under the eBPF verifier’s constraints:
the policy language is designed to trade expressiveness for verifier-
compatibility, so that the resulting monitors not only pass the eBPF
verifier checks but also run with an acceptable overhead, as our
evaluation confirms.
Concretely, this paper makes the following contributions:
• A policy language for in-kernel stateful security properties (Sec-
tion 5) with a denotational trace semantics and a type system that
statically separates controllable from observable events, ruling
out policies the kernel cannot enforce.
• A monitor synthesis procedure (Section 6) that turns every well-
typed policy into a finite-state monitor. We prove that this moni-
tor is correct with respect to the policy language semantics.
• A compilation schema (Section 7) that turns synthesized moni-
tors into eBPF programs accepted by the in-kernel verifier and
enforced synchronously on controllable events.
• A PoC implementation (Section 8) including the BPFence com-
piler and runtime, and an essential standard library of LSM hook
schemas and policy templates. We evaluate the effectiveness of
our implementation on seven case studies drawn from real-world
attack patterns; compare the expressiveness of our policy lan-
guage against some upstream Falco/Tetragon rules; and measure
the monitoring overhead via micro- and macro-benchmarks.
Before presenting these contributions, Section 2 reviews the
necessary background. Section 3 outlines BPFence through an
example, and Section 4 states our threat model. After presenting
the contributions, Section 9 situates BPFence with respect to the
relevant literature, and Section 10 draws some conclusions and
discusses future work. All the auxiliary notions required by our
formal development, the proofs of our theorems, and further details
on our implementation are in Appendices B and C. The artifact to
reproduce our experiments is available online [30].
2
Background
Extended BPF (eBPF) [13] is a technology that allows user-defined
programs to run inside the Linux kernel in response to system
events, without modifying kernel source code or loading kernel
modules. An eBPF program is compiled to a platform-independent
bytecode, loaded into the kernel, JIT-compiled to native code, and
attached to a kernel hook.
Kernel hooks intercept and modify the kernel execution flow at
predefined points. They determine when an eBPF program executes
and what it can observe or control. Three hook families are relevant
to security monitoring: (i) LSM hooks belong to the Linux Security
Module framework [47] and execute the eBPF program at security
decision points before a sensitive operation completes: if the pro-
gram returns an error code, the operation is blocked synchronously;
(ii) tracepoints [33] are static probe points scattered throughout the
kernel that trigger a program after an event has occurred, so they
can only observe, not block, a syscall; (iii) kprobes [31] are dynamic
probes that can be attached to any kernel routine to collect de-
bugging and performance information non-disruptively. Only LSM
hooks make an event controllable, so we can deny the action or
kill the offending process; tracepoints and kprobes make it only
observable, so we can only raise an alert. This distinction led us to
design the type system of Section 5 that statically rejects policies
attempting to deny an observable-only event.
At load time, every eBPF program is statically verified by the
in-kernel BPF verifier, which enforces memory safety and guaran-
tees termination: programs with uninitialized registers, unbounded
loops, out-of-bounds accesses, or excessive instruction complexity
are rejected. These constraints ensure that eBPF programs cannot
crash or hang the kernel, but they restrict the class of express-
ible computations, a limitation that affects the design of the policy
language of Section 5 and the compilation strategy of Section 7.
eBPF programs communicate with one another and with user
space through BPF maps: key–value data structures that reside in
kernel memory and persist across program invocations. There are
several map types; the ones most relevant to us are hash maps,
arrays, and ring buffers. Maps are shared, so two eBPF programs
attached to different hooks can interact using the same map.
3
BPFence in a Nutshell
Consider an attacker who gains initial access to a remote host, e.g.,
via a web vulnerability, and attempts an SSH lateral movement: read
an SSH private key (/home/user/.ssh/id_rsa), open a connection
to port 22 on an internal host, and execute a command on the remote
machine. Each individual action is legitimate: many services read
SSH keys, connect on port 22, or spawn shells or subprocesses. Only
the full three-step sequence reveals the attack [36].
To detect such an attack sequence and enforce a response to
block the offending operations, we define the following BPFence
policy:
1 import stdlib linux files
// read syscall
2 import stdlib linux network
// connect syscall
3 import stdlib linux process
// exec syscall
4
5 let key_read = happened(
6
read("/root/.ssh/*") or read("/home/*/.ssh/*")
7 )
8
9 let ssh_connected = happened(
10
connect(_, 22)
11 ) when key_read
12
13 policy lateral_movement {
14
apply to pid action kill
15
forbid exec(_) when ssh_connected
16 }
The policy involves three events raised by invoking three syscalls:
read (file open and read), connect, and exec (process execution).
Each event is bound to an LSM hook via an event schema defini-
tion provided by the standard library (e.g., read maps to the LSM
hook security_file_open, which intercepts both open and read
operations). The actual parameters of each syscall are automatically


Enforcement of In-Kernel Stateful Security Policies via eBPF
extracted at runtime and made available as event fields in the policy
(e.g., the file path for read, the destination port for connect).
The let declaration at line 5 introduces the history predicate
key_read. This predicate becomes true when the monitored process
reads the SSH private keys of the admin or a user from their .ssh
directory. Once this happens, the predicate remains true in the
future: the happened operator records whether a predicate has ever
been satisfied. The predicate ssh_connected at line 9 is conditioned
on the previous one: it becomes true only when a connection to
port 22 is attempted and key_read is already true. An isolated SSH
connection or an isolated key read does not affect it. Note that in
the two definitions the syntax * matches zero or more characters
within a single directory level, and _ denotes “any address”.
The policy lateral_movement is defined at line 13. Its header
specifies that the enforcement scope is at the process level (apply
to pid), namely one monitor instance per process. The body of the
policy contains a single forbid clause guarded by ssh_connected:
when the predicate holds, any subsequent exec call is blocked and
the process is terminated (action kill in the policy header). For
this to be possible in practice, the exec event in the forbid clause
must be bound to an LSM hook that can deny the corresponding
operation (controllable event). Our type system statically ensures
the enforceability of the policy: it assigns the violation type 𝐶
(controllable) to the event exec according to its hook and checks
that the kill action is indeed compatible with the type. Had exec
been bound to a tracepoint (observable only), the compiler would
have rejected the policy due to a type mismatch.
For the lateral movement policy, the compiler generates three
BPF programs, one per hook, that share their state through a com-
mon eBPF map. A user-space daemon loads the generated BPF
bytecode, sets up the shared state, attaches the programs to the
corresponding hooks, and starts dispatching violation events that
the loaded programs generate. The next sections formalize each
phase and present the implementation.
Finally, note that current eBPF-based monitoring tools cannot en-
force policies such as the lateral movement above. seccomp-bpf [27]
and AppArmor [8] are stateless: they can block all connections to
port 22 or none, but cannot condition the decision on a previously
observed file read. Falco [14] can only alert on individual events;
multi-step detection requires external engines. Tetragon [9] can
block operations, but its filtering conditions can only inspect fields
of the current event: there is no mechanism to maintain state across
events and condition a decision on what happened earlier. Addi-
tional comparisons are in Section 8.
4
Threat Model
We consider a Linux host running user-space processes, possibly
inside containers, monitored by BPFence. We assume the BPFence
loader installs the compiled monitors before process execution be-
gins. The trusted computing base (TCB) comprises the Linux kernel
(including the eBPF verifier and runtime), the BPFence compiler,
its loader, and the hardware.
The attacker can execute arbitrary code in a monitored process
and can issue any system call supported by the execution envi-
ronment. Attack strategies include multi-step privilege escalation,
lateral movement, and data exfiltration. We do not address kernel
exploits, verifier bugs, or side-channel attacks. We assume that the
attacker cannot compromise any component of the TCB, and that
they do not actively try to evade known BPFence policies (e.g., by
splitting a kill chain across distinct processes via fork) or attack
the monitor itself.
Under this threat model, we show that the generated monitors
enjoy soundness (no false positives) and detection completeness (no
missed violations), assuming that events are attached to the relevant
hooks. For controllable events, enforcement is synchronous: the of-
fending system call is denied before the kernel operation completes.
We also assume that updates to the monitor states are atomic and
that policy reloads never expose a partially configured monitor, so
guarantees hold throughout the lifetime of each monitored process;
Sections 7.2 and 8.1 discuss how the implementation discharges
these assumptions.
5
The Policy Language
BPFence policies are written in a declarative domain-specific lan-
guage (DSL) whose formal semantics is defined over a data-aware
temporal logic. The logic operates on traces of events that abstractly
represent the system calls invoked by a running program, and com-
bines three key features: temporal operators from timed linear
temporal logic with past [6]; a three-valued semantics over the
domain B3 = {ok, pending, violated} to express monitor decisions;
and data-aware event predicates that bind and constrain field values
across events via correlation variables. In addition, a type system
statically classifies each policy by how violations arise at runtime
and ensures that enforcement actions are associated only with
policies whose violations can be effectively intercepted.
We present the trace model (Section 5.1), the temporal logic
(Section 5.2), the DSL (Section 5.3), and its type system (Section 5.4).
5.1
Event Model
We abstractly represent a program execution as a trace of events
generated by system call invocations. According to the nature of
events in eBPF, we distinguish between two types: events that can
be intercepted via LSM hooks, enabling pre-event enforcement, and
events that are only observable post hoc via tracepoints or kprobes.
Formally, let Σ = Σ𝐶⊎Σ𝑂be a finite set of event types, partitioned
into controllable events Σ𝐶and observable events Σ𝑂. An event 𝑒is
a tuple ⟨𝐸, fields,𝑡⟩where 𝐸∈Σ, fields is a finite typed parameter
map, and 𝑡is a monotone timestamp. An execution trace is a finite,
time-ordered sequence of events 𝜎= 𝑒1𝑒2 · · ·𝑒𝑛with 𝑒𝑖.𝑡< 𝑒𝑖+1.𝑡
where we use the dot notation to access the fields of 𝑒. In the
following, we denote by 𝜎𝑘a trace of length 𝑘and by 𝑒𝑘its last
event.
5.2
Data-aware Temporal Logic
Our data-aware temporal logic is defined at two levels: event pred-
icates and temporal formulas, both of which use a three-valued
semantics with an environment to handle variable binding.
Event predicates. Intuitively, an event predicate is a propositional
formula evaluated on the events of a trace. Since events carry data
values, we introduce the notions of variables and guards to refer to
these values and express constraints over them.


Letterio Galletta
Formally, let V be a set of variables (ranged over by 𝑋,𝑌, . . .).
An event predicate is defined as:
𝑃::= 𝛼| ¬𝑃| 𝑃∧𝑃| 𝑃∨𝑃
𝛼::= (𝐸,𝑔)
𝑔::= true | field ∼ℓ| field = ?𝑋| field = 𝑋| 𝑔∧𝑔
where an event atom 𝛼= (𝐸,𝑔) pairs an event type 𝐸with a guard
𝑔. A guard 𝑔is a conjunction of constraints over the fields of an
event, where ℓ∈Val is a literal value, ∼∈{=, ≠, <, ≤, >, ≥} is a
comparison operator, and field denotes the name of an event field.
In addition, a guard introduces two variable constructs with distinct
roles: field = ?𝑋is a binding, which captures the value of a field into
a fresh variable 𝑋; whereas field = 𝑋is a constraint, requiring the
field to be equal to the previously bound variable 𝑋. Note that the
correspondence between kernel hooks and the events referenced
in our predicates 𝑃is assumed to be given by Σ.
We assume hereafter that a well-formedness condition holds:
each variable must be bound before use, and no bindings may
appear under ¬ or ∨(see Appendix B.1.1). Given an event 𝑒and
an environment 𝜌: V →Val, we interpret an event predicate 𝑃
on a three-valued boolean domain 𝐾3 = {true, false, na} using a
strong Kleene semantics [28]. The idea is that inapplicable value
na captures situations in which the event 𝑒is not among those 𝑃
is talking about. Formally, the semantics of event predicate 𝑃is
given by J𝑃K𝑎(𝑒, 𝜌) = (𝑣, 𝜌′) where 𝑣∈𝐾3 and 𝜌′ is an updated
environment with new bindings introduced by the guards of 𝑃. The
complete definition of J·K𝑎is in Appendix B.1.2. Hereafter, we write
J𝑃K𝑎(𝜎𝑘, 𝜌) to denote the application of J·K𝑎to the last event 𝑒𝑘of
a trace 𝜎𝑘.
Example 5.1 (Event predicates). Consider the event predicate at
line 6 of the policy of Section 3, written as
𝑃𝑘= (read, path ∼/root/.ssh/*) ∨
(read, path ∼/home/*/.ssh/*)
where ∼denotes glob matching, and the following three events:
𝑒1 = ⟨read, {path ↦→/home/alice/.ssh/id_rsa}, 𝑡1⟩
𝑒2 = ⟨connect, {dest ↦→10.0.0.7, port ↦→22}, 𝑡2⟩
𝑒3 = ⟨read, {path ↦→/etc/hosts}, 𝑡3⟩.
We have J𝑃𝑘K𝑎(𝑒1, ∅) = (true, ∅) because the event arguments
match those of the second disjunct. In contrast, J𝑃𝑘K𝑎(𝑒2, ∅) =
(na, ∅): the predicate 𝑃𝑘does not apply to 𝑒2 because it simply
does not concern connect events. Finally, J𝑃𝑘K𝑎(𝑒3, ∅) = (false, ∅):
the event type of 𝑒3 matches, but the guard fails on both disjuncts.
Telling false apart from na allows the monitor to evaluate predicates
over unrelated event types without spurious violations.
Temporal formulas. The syntax of temporal formulas is:
𝜙::= 𝑃| ¬𝜙| 𝜙∧𝜙| <𝜙| 𝐺𝜙| 𝑃1 𝐹≤Δ 𝑃2
where 𝑃is an event predicate, < is the once operator,𝐺is the always
operator, and 𝐹≤Δ is a bounded eventually operator where Δ ∈N is
a finite temporal bound: 𝑃1 𝐹≤Δ 𝑃2 requires that every time 𝑃1 holds,
𝑃2 holds within Δ time units. We assume that a well-formedness
condition holds to ensure each variable is bound before use and
that no binding appears under ¬ or < (see Appendix B.1.1).
The temporal formulas are evaluated over the semantic domain
B3 = {ok, pending, violated}. The value ok indicates that the moni-
tor has not detected any violation so far, while violated indicates
that a bad prefix has been detected. The value pending denotes that
the truth of the formula cannot yet be decided due to open obli-
gations: based on the information currently available, the monitor
requires additional future events to reach a verdict.
Formally, given a trace 𝜎𝑘and an environment 𝜌, the semantics
of a formula 𝜙is given by J𝜙K(𝜎𝑘, 𝜌) = (𝑣, 𝜌′) where 𝑣∈B3 and 𝜌′
is an updated environment. The evaluation function J·K is induc-
tively defined over the syntax of formulas. Below, we illustrate the
semantics of the once and always operators through an example
and report the definition of J·K for the case of bounded response;
the other cases are in Appendix B.1.3.
Example 5.2 (Once and always). Consider the predicate 𝑃𝑘of Ex-
ample 5.1 and the trace 𝜎3 = 𝑒1𝑒2𝑒3 built from the events taken from
that example. Also, let 𝑃𝑒be the single-atom predicate (exec, true).
We have that J<𝑃𝑘K(𝜎3, ∅) = ok since 𝑒1 reads a key; in contrast,
J<𝑃𝑒K(𝜎3, ∅) = pending because no exec has occurred yet and a fu-
ture one could still make it ok. Finally, J𝐺(¬𝑃𝑘)K(𝜎3, ∅) = violated,
since 𝑃𝑘holds on the prefix 𝑒1, making ¬𝑃𝑘violated there, and no
extension can retract it. Both temporal operators look at all the
prefixes of 𝜎3, but do so differently: the once operator asks whether
some prefix succeeded, whereas the always operator asks whether
some prefix failed.
For bounded response formulas 𝑃1𝐹≤Δ𝑃2, the pending value rep-
resents an obligation that is still unresolved: if the obligation is not
fulfilled within the specified time bound, a violation occurs. We
define the active instance set generated every time 𝑃1 holds:
I(𝜎𝑘, 𝜌)
def=

(𝑖, 𝜌𝑖,𝑑𝑖)
 𝑖< 𝑘, J𝑃1K𝑎(𝜎𝑖, 𝜌) = (true, 𝜌𝑖), 𝑑𝑖= 𝑒𝑖.𝑡+ Δ
	
where every instance (𝑖, 𝜌𝑖,𝑑𝑖) records the index 𝑖of the event
where 𝑃1 was true, the produced environment 𝜌𝑖, and the absolute
deadline 𝑑𝑖. An instance (𝑖, 𝜌𝑖,𝑑𝑖) is satisfied on 𝜎𝑘if:
sat(𝑖, 𝜌𝑖,𝑑𝑖, 𝜎𝑘)
def
⇐⇒
∃𝑗∈(𝑖,𝑘]. 𝑒𝑗.𝑡≤𝑑𝑖∧𝜋1
 J𝑃2K𝑎(𝜎𝑗, 𝜌𝑖) = true
Then, the semantics of the formula is:
J𝑃1 𝐹≤Δ 𝑃2K(𝜎𝑘, 𝜌) = (𝑣, 𝜌)
where
𝑣=


violated
∃(𝑖, 𝜌𝑖,𝑑𝑖) ∈I(𝜎𝑘, 𝜌). 𝑒𝑘.𝑡> 𝑑𝑖∧¬sat(𝑖, 𝜌𝑖,𝑑𝑖, 𝜎𝑘)
pending
∃(𝑖, 𝜌𝑖,𝑑𝑖) ∈I(𝜎𝑘, 𝜌). 𝑒𝑘.𝑡≤𝑑𝑖∧¬sat(𝑖, 𝜌𝑖,𝑑𝑖, 𝜎𝑘)
ok
otherwise
The first case captures the situation in which the deadline has
expired, and the expected event has never occurred; from that point
on, the violation is definitive and cannot be remedied by any future
events. The second case captures the situation in which there is still
time before the deadline, and thus the monitor can continue waiting.
The third case captures the situation in which the formula becomes
ok within the prescribed time bound. Note that the pending value
arises only when an obligation is active, but its deadline has not yet
expired, and that it is always transient since all deadlines are finite.


Enforcement of In-Kernel Stateful Security Policies via eBPF
Example 5.3 (Bounded response and bindings). Consider the fol-
lowing formula 𝜙, which requires every file to be closed within five
seconds of being opened:
𝜙= 𝐺 (open, ino = ?𝑋) 𝐹≤5s (close, ino = 𝑋)
The open atom binds the i-node field to the variable 𝑋, and the
close atom then constrains its own i-node to match 𝑋. In this way,
the two events are correlated by the value of the i-node. Upon
the event 𝑒4 = ⟨open, {ino ↦→8123},𝑡4⟩the open atom yields
(true, {𝑋↦→8123}), so the instance (4, {𝑋↦→8123},𝑡4 + 5s) en-
ters I, and the close atom is evaluated under the environment it
records. Only a close on i-node 8123 satisfies the instance, making
sat hold and the verdict ok. Any event other than a close of i-node
8123 leaves the verdict pending; once the deadline expires, it turns
violated. Note that the correlation between related open and close
events would not be possible without 𝑋.
5.3
The BPFence DSL
The BPFence DSL is a user-oriented declarative language for ex-
pressing security policies. It provides structured constructs for com-
mon security patterns, including safety, bounded response, history-
based, and taint policies. The DSL is intentionally designed to ensure
online monitorability and runtime enforceability and to effectively
target eBPF. The DSL has no independent semantics, but each pol-
icy denotes a formula of the temporal logic defined above: the DSL
is thus a monitorable fragment of the logic. Note that since JΠK
is a function of a single trace, BPFence can express and monitor
only trace properties: hyperproperties such as non-interference are
outside the scope of this paper.
Syntax. Given a finite set of event types Σ, the abstract syntax
of a BPFence program is:
Π ::= ⟨𝑑∗𝑝,𝐴⟩
where 𝑑∗is a (possibly empty) sequence of historical-predicate
definitions, 𝑝is the policy body, and 𝐴∈{Alert, Deny, Kill} is
the action to take when a violation occurs:
𝑑::= let 𝐻:= happened(𝑃)[when 𝐻′]
𝑝::= forbid 𝑃[when 𝐻] | when 𝑃1 then within Δ 𝑃2 | 𝑝1 ∧𝑝2
where 𝑃, 𝑃1, 𝑃2 are event predicates introduced above, 𝐻, 𝐻′ ∈Id
are historical-predicate identifiers, and Δ ∈N is a finite time bound.
A historical-predicate definition 𝑑introduces a predicate that
captures a property depending on the past history of events. A dec-
laration introduces a new predicate named 𝐻and may include an
optional when clause, conditioning the definition of 𝐻on another
historical predicate 𝐻′. Historical predicates can be referenced in
the policy body 𝑝. A forbid clause specifies an event predicate
𝑃that must never hold; it may optionally include a when clause,
restricting the prohibition to situations in which the historical pred-
icate 𝐻holds. A when . . . then within clause expresses a bounded
response property: whenever 𝑃1 holds, 𝑃2 must hold within the time
bound Δ. Finally, policy clauses can be combined via conjunction.
Semantics. The semantics is given by first translating the policy
into a temporal formula and then interpreting this formula on a
trace 𝜎𝑘. More precisely, we proceed as follows. The historical-
predicate declarations 𝑑∗evaluate to a definition environment 𝐷
mapping each identifier 𝐻to a logical formula. We have 𝐷(𝐻) = <𝑃
for let 𝐻:= happened(𝑃), and 𝐷(𝐻) = <(𝐷(𝐻′) ∧𝑃) for the when
clause. Acyclicity of 𝑑∗(enforced statically by the type system)
ensures 𝐷is well-defined.
Then, given a definition environment 𝐷and a policy body 𝑝, we
define the function J𝑝K𝐷
DSL that maps policies to temporal formulas,
inductively on the syntax of 𝑝:
Jforbid 𝑃K𝐷
DSL = 𝐺(¬𝑃)
Jforbid 𝑃when 𝐻K𝐷
DSL = 𝐺 ¬(𝐷(𝐻) ∧𝑃)
Jwhen 𝑃1 then within Δ 𝑃2K𝐷
DSL = 𝐺 𝑃1 𝐹≤Δ 𝑃2

J𝑝1 ∧𝑝2K𝐷
DSL = J𝑝1K𝐷
DSL ∧J𝑝2K𝐷
DSL
A forbid clause is translated into a𝐺formula, while a when . . . then
within clause is translated into an always bounded-response for-
mula. From the definition above, it follows directly that every policy
is translated into a conjunction of 𝐺formulas.
Example 5.4 (From policy to formula). Consider the lateral_
movement policy of Section 3, whose body 𝑝is the clause forbid
𝑃𝑒when ssh_connected, where 𝑃𝑒is as in Example 5.2. The two
let declarations yield an environment 𝐷with the bindings
𝐷(key_read) = <𝑃𝑘
𝐷(ssh_connected) = <(<𝑃𝑘∧𝑃𝑐)
where 𝑃𝑐= (connect, port = 22) and 𝑃𝑘is as in Example 5.1,
making it evident that the second declaration is conditioned on the
first. By the forbid–when case of J·K𝐷
DSL we obtain
J𝑝K𝐷
DSL = 𝐺 ¬(𝐷(ssh_connected) ∧𝑃𝑒)
= 𝐺 ¬(<(<𝑃𝑘∧𝑃𝑐) ∧𝑃𝑒)
as the denotation of our policy. Note that the nesting of < ensures
that the inner <𝑃𝑘already holds when the connection occurs, and
that both hold when the exec is attempted.
Finally, given a BPFence program Π = ⟨𝑑∗𝑝,𝐴⟩and a trace 𝜎𝑘,
the semantics of Π is defined as:
JΠK(𝜎𝑘) ≜𝜋1
 J𝜙K(𝜎𝑘, ∅) ∈B3
where 𝜙= J𝑝K𝐷(𝑑∗)
DSL
.
We first translate Π into a temporal formula 𝜙, evaluate 𝜙on the
trace 𝜎𝑘and an empty environment ∅, and take the resulting value
in B3: ok means no clause is violated and no obligation is pending;
pending means at least one 𝐹≤Δ obligation is active but its deadline
has not expired; violated means a safety clause is violated now, or a
deadline has elapsed without the required event. Crucially, violated
is irrevocable: no future extension of the trace can undo it. When a
violation occurs, the monitor performs action 𝐴.
Formal results. The following two results characterize the mon-
itorability of our language. The first establishes that once a DSL
program detects a violation, no future event can undo the decision:
Theorem 5.5 (Violation Persistence). For every DSL program
Π and finite traces 𝜎𝑘, 𝜎𝑗such that 𝜎𝑘is a prefix of 𝜎𝑗, if JΠK(𝜎𝑘) =
violated then JΠK(𝜎𝑗) = violated.
The second result ensures that each violating trace has a first
violating prefix:


Letterio Galletta
Proposition 5.6 (Existence of the first violating prefix).
Let Π be a DSL program and 𝜎𝑘be a finite trace such that JΠK(𝜎𝑘) =
violated. There exists a unique prefix 𝜎𝑖∗of 𝜎𝑘such that
𝑖∗= min{ 𝑖≤𝑘| JΠK(𝜎𝑖) = violated }.
We call 𝜎𝑖∗the first violating prefix of 𝜎𝑘.
5.4
Type System
The semantics defines when an execution trace violates a policy
but does not guarantee that a policy can be effectively enforced at
runtime. In particular, a semantically valid policy may still be: not
enforceable, because a violation is triggered by an observable event
that can only be detected after its occurrence; or not directly enforce-
able, because the violation arises from a deadline expiration rather
than from a specific controllable event. To address these issues, we
introduce a type system that classifies DSL programs according to
how violations may arise at runtime: due to a controllable event
(type 𝐶), an observable event (type 𝑂), or by a deadline expiration
(type 𝑇). The type system statically verifies that the action 𝐴asso-
ciated with the program is compatible with its violation type, e.g.,
Deny is permitted only for policies of type 𝐶. Since types describe
modes of violation and enforcement capabilities, we refer to them
as violation types. In addition to the typing rules presented here,
our implementation also verifies standard well-formedness: every
identifier must be declared before use, historical-predicate defini-
tions must be acyclic, and values used in event-predicate guards
must match the types declared in the corresponding event schemas.
Types and type environment. The set of violation types consists
of three elements 𝜏∈T = {𝐶, 𝑂, 𝑇} where 𝐶means that the
violation is triggered by a controllable event; 𝑂that the violation
is caused by an observable event; and 𝑇that the violation arises
from a deadline expiration or the absence of an event. The types
are ordered to form a finite lattice 𝐶⊑𝑂⊑𝑇: 𝐶⊑𝑂because a
controllable event is a special case of an observable one, and 𝑂⊑𝑇
because a violation anchored to a specific event is strictly more
enforceable than one determined by a timeout. We denote by ⊔the
join operator.
The classification of events as controllable or observable de-
pends on the deployment environment. We capture this dependency
through a typing environment Γ, which assigns to each event type
𝐸∈Σ its corresponding violation type: Γ(𝐸) = 𝐶if the event 𝐸
can be intercepted via an LSM hook, and Γ(𝐸) = 𝑂if 𝐸is obtained
through a tracepoint or kprobe hook.
Since policy bodies may refer to historical predicates 𝐻, we intro-
duce an environment Θ: Id →T that records the violation type of
each identifier. The environment Θ is constructed inductively from
the historical-predicate definitions 𝑑∗occurring in the program, as
defined by the rules in Appendix B.1.5.
Typing rules. The most relevant typing rules are in Figure 1
(the full set is in Appendix B.1.5). The rules for event predicates,
characterized by the judgment Γ ⊢𝑃: 𝜏, assign a violation type 𝜏
to an event predicate 𝑃under the environment Γ. The type for an
event 𝛼= (𝐸,𝑔) is taken from the environment Γ (rule PEvent).
Rule PAnd joins the types of the two sub-terms to ensure that a
violation can occur in the worst possible way.
The rules for policies have typing judgments of the form Γ; Θ ⊢
𝑝: 𝜏. Rule Comp takes the join of the types of the two sub-terms,
reflecting that a violation may arise from either of the conjuncts.
In rule Forbid, the resulting type is that of the event predicate 𝑃,
reflecting the fact that forbid denotes a safety property whose vio-
lations are always anchored to a specific event. Rule ForbidWhen
is similar, but the type is 𝜏𝐻⊔𝜏𝑃, where 𝜏𝑃is the type of 𝑃and
𝜏𝐻is the type of the historical predicate 𝐻. In the previous two
rules, the join means that a violation occurs when both 𝐷(𝐻) and
𝑃hold simultaneously. Since both event predicates and historical
predicates are typed in {𝐶,𝑂}, in either case the resulting type
is at most 𝑂, never 𝑇: no timeout can cause a violation. In rule
Response, the premises Γ ⊢𝑃1 : 𝜏1 and Γ ⊢𝑃2 : 𝜏2 ensure that 𝑃1
and 𝑃2 are well-typed event predicates, but their types do not affect
the resulting type 𝑇, which is determined solely by the temporal
structure 𝐹≤Δ: any policy with a bounded-response obligation may
produce a timeout violation, regardless of whether the involved
events are controllable or observable.
Rule Prog derives the environment Θ from the declarations 𝑑∗,
obtains the violation type 𝜏of the policy body 𝑝, and checks that
the action 𝐴is compatible with 𝜏via the predicate Allowed:
Allowed(𝜏,𝐴) ≜
(
𝐴∈{Alert, Deny, Kill}
if 𝜏= 𝐶,
𝐴= Alert
if 𝜏∈{𝑂,𝑇}.
The actions Deny and Kill are permitted only when 𝜏= 𝐶, while
the action Alert is always permitted, since the monitor can al-
ways raise a warning. Note that the type 𝜏of a policy depends
on the hooks available in the deployment environment: the same
event may have type 𝐶where an LSM hook is available and type 𝑂
otherwise, making the policy Deny-able in the first case and only
Alert-able in the second.
Example 5.7 (Typing a policy). Consider again the lateral_
movement policy of Section 3, on a deployment where read, connect,
and exec are all bound to LSM hooks, so that Γ assigns 𝐶to all
of them. The let declarations yield an environment Θ such that
Θ(key_read) = Θ(ssh_connected) = 𝐶. To type the policy, we
apply rule ForbidWhen, which joins the type of ssh_connected
with that of exec, resulting in Γ; Θ ⊢𝑝: 𝐶for its body 𝑝. Since
Allowed(𝐶, Kill) holds, Prog accepts the program with the kill
action. Consider extending the policy with a new clause denoting
the formula of Example 5.3, which requires every file to be closed
within five seconds of being opened. Even when Γ assigns𝐶to both
open and close, rule Response assigns the type𝑇to the new clause
because the violation may come from the expiry of the deadline.
By rule Comp, the type propagates to the whole program, so, for
the Allowed predicate to hold, the action can only be Alert.
Type soundness. The following theorem establishes the sound-
ness of the type system with respect to the semantics: the violation
type 𝜏assigned to a policy is a sound upper bound on the controlla-
bility class of the event that triggers the violation at runtime, when
such an event exists:
Theorem 5.8 (Type Soundness). Let Γ be a type environment,
Π = ⟨𝑑∗𝑝,𝐴⟩be a DSL program such that Γ; ∅⊢𝑑∗: Θ and Γ; Θ ⊢
𝑝: 𝜏. For each finite trace 𝜎𝑘such that JΠK(𝜎𝑘) = violated, let 𝜎𝑖∗be
the first violating prefix of 𝜎𝑘. Then:


Enforcement of In-Kernel Stateful Security Policies via eBPF
PEvent
Γ ⊢(𝐸,𝑔) : Γ(𝐸)
PAnd
Γ ⊢𝑃1 : 𝜏1
Γ ⊢𝑃2 : 𝜏2
Γ ⊢𝑃1 ∧𝑃2 : 𝜏1 ⊔𝜏2
Comp
Γ; Θ ⊢𝑝1 : 𝜏1
Γ; Θ ⊢𝑝2 : 𝜏2
Γ; Θ ⊢𝑝1 ∧𝑝2 : 𝜏1 ⊔𝜏2
Forbid
Γ ⊢𝑃: 𝜏
Γ; Θ ⊢forbid 𝑃: 𝜏
ForbidWhen
Γ ⊢𝑃: 𝜏
𝜏𝐻= Θ(𝐻)
Γ; Θ ⊢forbid 𝑃when 𝐻: 𝜏⊔𝜏𝐻
Response
Γ ⊢𝑃1 : 𝜏1
Γ ⊢𝑃2 : 𝜏2
Γ; Θ ⊢when 𝑃1 then within Δ 𝑃2 : 𝑇
Prog
Γ; ∅⊢𝑑∗: Θ
Γ; Θ ⊢𝑝: 𝜏
Allowed(𝜏,𝐴)
Γ ⊢⟨𝑑∗𝑝, 𝐴⟩: ✓
Figure 1: Relevant typing rules for BPFence DSL.
• if 𝜏∈{𝐶,𝑂}, the violation is triggered by an offending event
𝑒𝑖∗such that Γ(𝑒𝑖∗.type) ⊑𝜏;
• if 𝜏= 𝑇, either the violation is triggered by an offending event
𝑒𝑖∗such that Γ(𝑒𝑖∗.type) ⊑𝑂, or it is due to a deadline expi-
ration: there exists a bounded-response sub-formula 𝑃1𝐹≤Δ𝑃2
of J𝑝K𝐷
DSL and an instance (𝑖, 𝜌𝑖,𝑑𝑖) ∈I(𝜎𝑖∗, ∅) of its active
instance set such that 𝑒𝑖∗.𝑡> 𝑑𝑖and ¬ sat(𝑖, 𝜌𝑖,𝑑𝑖, 𝜎𝑖∗).
6
Monitor Synthesis
A DSL program is transformed into a monitor automaton that per-
forms the monitoring and the enforcement. We first introduce a
normal form to capture a structural property of the denotations of
DSL programs (Section 6.1). We then define the synthesis function
GenMon, which translates such normal form into a monitor, and
establish that the resulting monitor is sound and complete with
respect to the semantics of BPFence DSL (Section 6.2).
6.1
Normal Form
Every formula produced by the denotation function J·KDSL of Sec-
tion 5 either has the 𝐺operator at the outermost level or is a
conjunction of two formulas. Since the operator 𝐺distributes over
∧(Proposition B.2), we can always collect all conjuncts under a
single 𝐺, obtaining the following normal form:
𝐺
Û
𝑖∈𝐼
¬𝜓𝑖∧
Û
𝑗∈𝐽
 𝑃𝑗
1 𝐹≤Δ𝑗𝑃𝑗
2

where each𝜓𝑖is either an event predicate 𝑃or a formula of the form
<𝜙𝐻∧𝑃, whereas 𝑃𝑗
1, 𝑃𝑗
2 are event predicates, Δ𝑗∈N is a finite
bound, and 𝐼, 𝐽are finite index sets. The formula <𝜙𝐻is the one
associated by 𝐷with the historical predicate 𝐻. The rationale is that
the normal form highlights two kinds of constraints a policy can
express. The conjuncts ¬𝜓𝑖express safety conditions: a violation
occurs when𝜓𝑖holds on the current event, either because the event
predicate 𝑃is satisfied directly (forbid 𝑃), or because both the past
condition <𝜙𝐻and the predicate 𝑃hold simultaneously (forbid
𝑃when 𝐻). The conjuncts 𝑃𝑗
1𝐹≤Δ𝑗𝑃𝑗
2 express bounded-response
obligations that are violated by a deadline expiry.
Given a DSL program Π = ⟨𝑑∗𝑝,𝐴⟩, we define the normaliza-
tion function NF(Π) inductively on the structure of 𝑝(see Ap-
pendix B.2.1). Intuitively, for a forbid clause, it produces a safety
conjunct ¬𝜓𝑖; for a then within clause, it produces a bounded-
response conjunct 𝑃𝑗
1𝐹≤Δ𝑃𝑗
2. For a conjunction 𝑝1 ∧𝑝2, it applies NF
recursively to 𝑝1 and 𝑝2, and merges the resulting formulas into a
single 𝐺. The normalization is correct with respect to the semantics
of formulas, processes each clause exactly once, and terminates in a
number of steps equal to the number of clauses in 𝑝(Theorem B.4).
Example 6.1 (Normal form of a two-clause policy). Consider the
lateral_movement policy of Section 3 extended, as in Example 5.7,
with a bounded-response clause that requires every file to be closed
within five seconds of being opened. Denote by 𝑃𝑜= (open, ino =
?𝑋) and by 𝑃𝑐𝑙= (close, ino = 𝑋) the two predicates of Ex-
ample 5.3. The body of the extended policy is the conjunction
𝑝= 𝑝1 ∧𝑝2 of the two clauses, so its denotation is J𝑝K𝐷
DSL =
J𝑝1K𝐷
DSL ∧J𝑝2K𝐷
DSL:
J𝑝1K𝐷
DSL = 𝐺 ¬(<(<𝑃𝑘∧𝑃𝑐) ∧𝑃𝑒)
J𝑝2K𝐷
DSL = 𝐺 𝑃𝑜𝐹≤5s 𝑃𝑐𝑙

where the denotation of 𝑝1 is the one computed in Example 5.4.
Each clause of 𝑝thus carries its own 𝐺. The normalization function
NF collects the two into a single one:
NF(Π) = 𝐺 ¬(<(<𝑃𝑘∧𝑃𝑐) ∧𝑃𝑒) ∧𝑃𝑜𝐹≤5s 𝑃𝑐𝑙

6.2
Building Monitor Automata
The normal form plays a key role in monitor synthesis: by the
semantics of 𝐺, every violated outcome of NF(Π) on a prefix 𝜎𝑘is
due to a violation of at least one conjunct, either a safety conjunct
¬𝜓𝑖or a bounded-response conjunct 𝑃𝑗
1𝐹≤Δ𝑗𝑃𝑗
2. This separation
allows us to construct the monitor compositionally: we synthesize
a local automaton for each conjunct and then combine them into a
single monitor by parallel composition.
Specifically, a monitor automaton is a tuple
A = ⟨𝑄, 𝑞0, Mem, →, bad⟩
where 𝑄is a finite control-state set, 𝑞0 is the initial state, Mem is
the monitor memory (defined below), →is the transition relation,
and bad ⊆𝑄× Mem is the set of bad configurations. Below, we
first define the monitor memory and then the synthesis function
GenMon to translate each conjunct into a local monitor.
Monitor memory. The memory consists of two components. The
first records whether each past formula <𝜙𝐻occurring in the safety
conjuncts of NF(Π) has been satisfied at some point in the past
(historical memory). The second records the set of active obligations
and a violation flag for each bounded-response conjunct.
Formally, let Φ< denote the set of past formulas <𝜙𝐻occur-
ring in NF(Π). The historical memory is a function H : Φ< →
{ok, pending} where H (<𝜙𝐻) = ok means that <𝜙𝐻has been sat-
isfied in the past, whereas H (<𝜙𝐻) = pending means that it is has
not. The historical memory is monotone: once an entry becomes
ok, it remains ok on all subsequent steps of the monitor.
For each bounded-response conjunct 𝑃𝑗
1𝐹≤Δ𝑗𝑃𝑗
2, the monitor
maintains a clause state (𝐼𝑗, 𝑓𝑗). The set 𝐼𝑗collects the currently


Letterio Galletta
active instances: each instance (𝑑, 𝜌) records the absolute deadline
𝑑and the environment 𝜌captured when 𝑃𝑗
1 matched. The flag
𝑓𝑗∈{ok, violated} is set to violated when at least one instance
expires without the required response, and remains ok otherwise.
The monitor memory is then a pair 𝑚= (H, J), where H is the
historical memory and J maps each bounded-response conjunct
𝑗∈𝐽to a clause state (𝐼𝑗, 𝑓𝑗). We denote by 𝑚H and 𝑚J the first
and the second element of 𝑚, respectively.
Safety automaton. For each safety conjunct ¬𝜓𝑖in NF(Π), the
synthesis function GenMon returns a safety monitor automaton
𝐴𝑠
𝑖= ⟨𝑄𝑠,𝑞𝑠
0, Mem, →𝑠
𝑖, bad𝑠⟩where:
𝑄𝑠= {ok, violated},
𝑞𝑠
0 = ok,
bad𝑠= {(violated,𝑚) | 𝑚∈Mem}.
Note that the violation condition depends solely on the control state:
𝐴𝑠
𝑖is in violation if and only if its state is violated, regardless of the
memory contents. The transition relation →𝑠
𝑖is defined by the rules
S-* at the top of Figure 2. In the rules, we use an evaluation function
EJ𝜓𝑖KH(𝑒) ∈𝐾3 that evaluates a safety conjunct 𝜓𝑖on a single
event 𝑒using the current historical memory H to resolve past sub-
formulas. For 𝜓𝑖= 𝑃, evaluation reduces to the evaluation of the
predicate 𝑃on𝑒. For𝜓𝑖= <𝜙𝐻∧𝑃, we first resolve the past condition
by looking it up in H: if H (<𝜙𝐻) = pending, the evaluation results
in false regardless of 𝑃; otherwise the evaluation results in the
evaluation of 𝑃on 𝑒. Rule S-Viol fires when 𝜓𝑖evaluates to true on
the event 𝑒under the current historical memory 𝑚H: in this case,
the automaton transitions to the violated state. Rule S-Ok covers
the cases false and na, both of which leave the automaton in the ok
state: na means the current event is irrelevant to 𝜓𝑖and does not
constitute a violation. Rule S-Absorb makes violated an absorbing
state: once a safety violation is detected, it is irrevocable, mirroring
the semantics of 𝐺(¬𝜓𝑖).
Bounded-response automaton. For each bounded-response con-
junct 𝑃𝑗
1 𝐹≤Δ𝑗𝑃𝑗
2, the synthesis function GenMon constructs a bounded-
response automaton 𝐴𝑟
𝑗= ⟨𝑄𝑟,𝑞𝑟
0, Mem, →𝑟
𝑗, bad𝑟⟩where:
𝑄𝑟= {ok, violated},
𝑞𝑟
0 = ok,
bad𝑟= {(violated,𝑚) | 𝑚∈Mem}.
The automaton tracks the clause state (𝐼𝑗, 𝑓𝑗) in the shared memory.
For each event 𝑒, the automaton: (i) checks whether any active
instance has expired without satisfaction; (ii) removes from 𝐼𝑗all
instances that are expired or satisfied by 𝑒; and (iii) adds a new
instance if 𝑃𝑗
1 is triggered by 𝑒, recording the deadline 𝑒.𝑡+ Δ𝑗
and the environment 𝜌′ captured at activation. These steps are
performed by the update function 𝑈((𝐼𝑗, 𝑓𝑗),𝑒).
The transition relation →𝑟
𝑗is defined by the rules R-* in Figure 2,
where 𝑚′ is the memory 𝑚updated with the new clause state. Rule
R-Ok fires when the memory update produces the violation flag
ok: no active instance has expired without satisfaction, so the au-
tomaton remains in ok and the clause state is updated to (𝐼′, ok),
reflecting the removal of satisfied instances and the possible addi-
tion of a new one. Rule R-Viol fires when the update produces the
violation flag violated: some active instance has expired without
satisfaction, so the automaton transitions to the violated state and
the clause state is updated to (𝐼′, violated). Rule R-Absorb makes
the violated state absorbing: once a deadline violation is detected,
the memory is left unchanged and the violation is irrevocable.
Monitor automaton. Given a normal form formula NF(Π), the
synthesis function GenMon constructs the global monitor as the
parallel composition of one local automaton for each conjunct:
A =

∥𝑖∈𝐼𝐴𝑠
𝑖

∥

∥𝑗∈𝐽𝐴𝑟
𝑗

where the set of control states is 𝑄= Î
𝑖∈𝐼𝑄𝑠× Î
𝑗∈𝐽𝑄𝑟, the
initial state 𝑞0 is given componentwise by (𝑞0)𝑖= 𝑞𝑠
0 for every
𝑖∈𝐼and (𝑞0)𝑗= 𝑞𝑟
0 for every 𝑗∈𝐽, the initial monitor memory is
𝑚= (H, J) such that H maps every entry to pending and J maps
every 𝑗to the clause state (∅, ok). A global configuration (𝑞,𝑚) is
bad if and only if at least one local automaton is in violated:
bad = {(𝑞,𝑚) | ∃𝑖∈𝐼. 𝑞𝑖= violated ∨∃𝑗∈𝐽. 𝑞𝑗= violated}.
On each event 𝑒, the monitor transition performs two steps. First,
the historical memory H is updated to H ′: for each past formula
<𝜙𝐻, the corresponding entry is set to ok if 𝜙𝐻holds on 𝑒, and
left unchanged otherwise. This update is performed before any
local automaton fires, so that all automata read the same updated
H ′. Second, all local automata fire independently: for every 𝑖∈𝐼
the automaton 𝐴𝑠
𝑖performs a →𝑠
𝑖transition, and for every 𝑗∈𝐽
the automaton 𝐴𝑟
𝑗performs a →𝑟
𝑗transition, on the same updated
memory. Since safety automata do not modify any clause state and
the clause states of distinct bounded-response automata are disjoint,
all updates are independent. The formal definition of the global
monitor behavior is in Appendix B.2.4.
After each event 𝑒, the monitor applies the enforcement function
Enf to the updated configuration (𝑞′,𝑚′):
Enf(𝑞′,𝑚′) =
(
allow
if (𝑞′,𝑚′) ∉bad
𝐴
otherwise
where 𝐴∈{Alert, Deny, Kill} is the declared action in the DSL
program. Recall that for a well-typed program, the type system
guarantees statically that 𝐴respects the nature of the event 𝑒.
Note that the resulting monitor is deterministic (Proposition B.7)
and has size linear in the size of the formula and historical-predicate
declarations (Proposition B.8). These two properties are critical to
achieve an effective eBPF implementation.
Correctness. The following theorems ensure the correctness of
the monitor synthesis function GenMon. Soundness guarantees
that the monitor never raises false alarms, whereas detection com-
pleteness guarantees that every semantic violation is eventually
detected. Together, they ensure that the monitor is faithful to the
formal semantics of NF(Π):
Theorem 6.2 (Soundness). For every DSL program Π and finite
trace 𝜎𝑘, if A = GenMon(NF(Π)) reaches a bad configuration after
reading 𝜎𝑘, then JΠK(𝜎𝑘) = violated.
Theorem 6.3 (Completeness). For every DSL program Π and
finite trace 𝜎𝑘, if JΠK(𝜎𝑘) = violated, then A = GenMon(NF(Π))
reaches a bad configuration on some prefix 𝜎𝑘′ with 𝑘′ ≤𝑘, provided
that (i) every event relevant to the policy is delivered to the monitor
and (ii) at least one event is delivered after every deadline expiration.
Note that detection completeness requires two additional as-
sumptions: first, that every event relevant to the policy is delivered
to the monitor without loss; second, that for bounded-response


Enforcement of In-Kernel Stateful Security Policies via eBPF
S-Viol
EJ𝜓𝑖K𝑚H (𝑒) = true
(ok,𝑚)
𝑒−→
𝑠
𝑖(violated,𝑚)
S-Ok
EJ𝜓𝑖K𝑚H (𝑒) ≠true
(ok,𝑚)
𝑒−→
𝑠
𝑖(ok,𝑚)
S-Absorb
(violated,𝑚)
𝑒−→
𝑠
𝑖(violated,𝑚)
R-Ok
𝑈(𝑚J (𝑗),𝑒) = (𝐼′, ok)
𝑚′
J = 𝑚J [𝑗↦→(𝐼′, ok)]
(ok,𝑚)
𝑒−→
𝑟
𝑗(ok,𝑚′)
R-Viol
𝑈(𝑚J (𝑗),𝑒) = (𝐼′, violated)
𝑚′
J = 𝑚J [𝑗↦→(𝐼′, violated)]
(ok,𝑚)
𝑒−→
𝑟
𝑗(violated,𝑚′)
R-Absorb
(violated,𝑚)
𝑒−→
𝑟
𝑗(violated,𝑚)
Figure 2: Rules defining the transition relations →𝑠
𝑖and →𝑟
𝑗of the local automata 𝐴𝑠
𝑖and 𝐴𝑟
𝑗, for every 𝑖∈𝐼and 𝑗∈𝐽.
clauses, at least one event is delivered after every deadline expira-
tion, so that the monitor has the opportunity to detect the timeout.
The first assumption holds when the eBPF hook is attached before
any relevant event can occur; the second is satisfied in practice by
the continuous stream of kernel events.
7
Compilation to eBPF
This section describes how a monitor A produced in Section 6
is compiled into concrete eBPF programs that enforce the policy
inside the Linux kernel. We give an overview of the compilation
scheme (Section 7.1), show how the monitor state is realized via
BPF maps (Section 7.2), present the per-event processing logic (Sec-
tion 7.3), and then describe the runtime support that completes the
enforcement loop (Section 7.4).
7.1
Compilation Overview
Each eBPF program is attached to exactly one kernel hook and can
only intercept events raised at that hook. A policy, however, can
refer to events from multiple hooks: a bounded-response clause
𝑃𝑗
1 𝐹≤Δ𝑗𝑃𝑗
2 may trigger on one hook and expect a response on an-
other, and a safety conjunct ¬(<𝜙𝐻∧𝑃) may record a historical
flag on one hook and check it on another. The BPFence compiler
therefore translates a policy Π into one BPF program per hook
mentioned in the policy. Since these programs collectively imple-
ment the single monitor A, they must share the monitor memory
(H, J) so that the state written by one program is visible to the
others.
Concretely, the compilation of a program Π is driven by its nor-
mal form NF(Π) (Section 6.1), which splits the policy into safety
conjuncts ¬𝜓𝑖and bounded-response conjuncts 𝑃𝑗
1 𝐹≤Δ𝑗𝑃𝑗
2. Each
conjunct maps directly to a block of generated code: safety con-
juncts become if–goto checks implementing the rules S-Viol/S-Ok
of Figure 2, while bounded-response conjuncts become lookups
and updates on the monitor state implementing the 𝑈function
and the rules R-Viol/R-Ok. Since the number of clauses is fixed,
all conjuncts are unrolled at compile time: the generated code is a
straight-line sequence with no loops, which guarantees that every
program passes the eBPF verifier’s termination check.
Additionally, the generated programs run in the kernel and cap-
ture events from all processes simultaneously, making the monitor
inherently system-wide. However, policies track the behavior of
individual entities independently, e.g., a taint flag set by one pro-
cess must not propagate to another. A policy defines the unit of
monitoring by declaring a scope (pid, tgid, cgroup, or namespace):
two events belong to the same monitored entity if they share the
same scope value. To achieve this grouping, on each intercepted
event, the generated code extracts an execution key 𝜅using an ap-
propriate BPF helper (e.g., bpf_get_current_pid_tgid() for per-
process scope, bpf_get_current_cgroup_id() for per-container
scope). The execution key 𝜅partitions the monitor memory: each
monitored entity maintains its own independent copy (H𝜅, J𝜅).
However, kernel identifiers can be recycled, for example, once a pro-
cess exits, its pid can be reassigned to an unrelated process, which
would then inherit the state accumulated under the same key. For
pid-scoped policies, the generated code therefore invalidates the
historical memory of a key when the process it identifies exits, so
that the monitor memory follows the lifetime of that process and
not the reuse of its identifier. Below, we detail how this per-entity
state is concretely stored and shared across programs.
7.2
Representing the Monitor State
eBPF programs have no heap and no writable global variables, so
the only mechanism for keeping persistent state is the BPF map.
The generated BPFence programs use statically sized BPF maps to
maintain the per-entity monitor memory (H𝜅, J𝜅).
The historical memory H𝜅is implemented by a hash table keyed
by a pair (𝜅,ℎ), where ℎis a compile-time numeric identifier as-
signed to each historical predicate <𝜙𝐻. When the generated pro-
gram evaluates 𝜙𝐻to true, it sets the corresponding entry to 1; the
entry is never reset while the monitored entity exists, preserving
the monotonicity of H.
The active instance set 𝐼𝑗of each bounded-response clause is
stored in a map keyed by a pair (𝜅, 𝑗), where each entry holds a
deadline (a timestamp in nanoseconds) and the correlation envi-
ronment 𝜌′ captured at activation of the instance, encoded as a
fixed-size byte array. When the map is full, an LRU policy discards
the least-recently-used entry; as long as all the active instances fit
in it, the generated program faithfully realizes the formal semantics
of 𝐼𝑗of Section 6.2, which assumes an unbounded 𝐼𝑗.
The memory space required by a monitored entity can be deter-
mined by analyzing the policy: since the keys have the form (𝜅,ℎ)
and (𝜅, 𝑗), an entity occupies at most |Φ<| entries of the first map
and |𝐽| of the second.
Finally, the monitor is system-wide and its programs run on every
core, so the state of one entity may be updated concurrently. The
generated code relies on the atomic operations the kernel provides


Letterio Galletta
1
SEC("lsm/hook_name")
2
int BPF_PROG(bpfence_hook, ...) {
3
// 1. Key extraction and target filter
4
u64 kappa = bpf_get_current_pid_tgid();
5
if (!in_target_set(kappa)) return 0;
6
7
// 2. Event extraction
8
struct bpfence_ev ev;
9
extract_fields(&ev, ctx);
10
11
// 3. Historical-flag update UpdH
12
for each <𝜙𝐻∈H:
// unrolled during compilation
13
if (𝜙𝐻holds on ev)
14
history_map[kappa, h] = 1;
15
16
// 4. Safety-clause checks ¬𝜓𝑖
17
for each 𝜓𝑖∈𝑆:
// unrolled during compilation
18
if (J𝜓𝑖K𝐻𝜅(ev))
19
goto violation;
20
21
// 5. Bounded-response update 𝑃𝑗
1 𝐹≤Δ𝑗𝑃𝑗
2
22
for each clause j in R:
// unrolled during compilation
23
rv = response_map[kappa, j];
24
if (rv && expired(rv))
// (i) detect
25
goto violation;
26
if (rv && 𝑃𝑗
2 matches ev) // (ii) satisfy
27
delete response_map[kappa, j];
28
if (𝑃𝑗
1 matches ev)
// (iii) activate
29
response_map[kappa, j] =
30
{ deadline: now + Δ𝑗, env: 𝜌′ };
31
32
return 0; // allow
33
violation:
34
emit_alert(kappa, policy, clause, ...);
35
// Deny: return -EPERM;
36
// Kill: bpf_send_signal(SIGKILL);
37
}
Figure 3: Pseudocode of a generated BPF program.
for eBPF maps, and makes atomic those updates that read a value
and write it back.
7.3
Per-event Processing
Figure 3 shows the pseudocode of a generated BPF program. For
each intercepted event 𝑒, the program first extracts the execution
key 𝜅from the event context and, if the policy restricts enforcement
to a target set, short-circuits to allow for entities outside it (lines
3–5). The code then reads the relevant event fields from the hook
arguments into a local instance of a suitable structure (lines 7–9).
The core of the program implements the monitor behavior as
described in Section 6.2. The program first evaluates all historical
predicates: for each <𝜙𝐻, if 𝜙𝐻holds on the current event, the
corresponding entry in H𝜅is set to 1 (lines 11–14). All historical
updates are performed before any safety or response check, so that
subsequent evaluations read an updated H𝜅. Next, for each safety
conjunct ¬𝜓𝑖, the program evaluates J𝜓𝑖KH𝜅on the current event.
If the result is true, the event violates ¬𝜓𝑖, and the program jumps
immediately to the enforcement handler (lines 16–19). Finally, for
each bounded-response clause 𝑃𝑗
1 𝐹≤Δ𝑗𝑃𝑗
2, the program updates
the active instance set 𝐼𝑗following a three-phase logic: it detects
expired instances, removes satisfied ones, and activates new ones
when 𝑃𝑗
1 matches (lines 21–30).
When a violation is detected, the BPF program applies the ac-
tion declared in the policy: Deny returns -EPERM from the LSM
hook, blocking the operation before it completes; Kill invokes
bpf_send_signal(SIGKILL); Alert emits the violation event to
user space without blocking. A bounded-response violation occurs
when a deadline expires without the required response. Since the
BPF program only executes when an event arrives, the runtime dae-
mon provides a dedicated timeout scanner that periodically checks
for expired deadlines.
7.4
Runtime Support
A user-space daemon loads the generated BPF programs and at-
taches them to their corresponding kernel hooks. When a policy
spans multiple hooks, the programs must share the monitor mem-
ory (H𝜅, J𝜅) introduced in Section 7.2. The daemon achieves this
sharing by loading programs sequentially: after the first program
is loaded, the daemon binds each subsequent program’s map slots
to the maps already created by the first, so that all programs in the
policy read and write the same BPF maps. This mechanism enables
cross-hook correlation of variables and values.
Once all programs are attached, the daemon performs two tasks.
First, it polls a shared ring buffer where the BPF programs write vi-
olation events (each carrying the policy identifier, execution key 𝜅,
violated clause, and contextual information) and dispatches them
to a configurable handler. Second, it runs a timeout scanner that pe-
riodically checks the response map for expired deadlines, detecting
bounded-response violations.
8
Implementation and Evaluation
BPFence has been implemented as two open-source tools available
online [30]: a compiler that translates policies into loadable eBPF
programs, and a daemon that loads the eBPF programs, attaches
them to their corresponding kernel hooks, and manages the viola-
tion notification. Section 8.1 briefly presents our implementation,
whereas Section 8.2 presents the experimental evaluation.
8.1
Implementation
The implementation consists of an OCaml compiler (∼7𝐾LoC) and a
C runtime daemon (∼2𝐾LoC). The compiler translates a .bpfence
source file into C files, which are then compiled to .bpf.o objects
via clang and loaded by the daemon. In addition to the tasks de-
scribed in Section 7.4, the daemon dispatches violation events and
manages policy updates. Violation events are processed by a con-
figurable handler chain that ships with three built-in handlers: log
(structured logging to file or stdout), alert (forwarding to syslog),
and exec (execution of a shell command to handle the event). Policy
updates can be applied at runtime, without interrupting enforce-
ment, upon receipt of a suitable Linux signal.
A subtle but critical invariant of the daemon concerns the order in
which the compiled programs are started. eBPF programs attached
to LSM hooks start intercepting system calls the moment they are
linked to their hook, so if the daemon attached a deny or kill
policy before configuring its set of target processes, the policy
would momentarily apply to every process on the host. To avoid this
race, the daemon enforces a three-phase initialization: it first loads
each BPF object into the kernel, creating the maps, then populates
the target map with the PIDs or cgroup identifiers, and only at
the end attaches the programs to their hooks. The same invariant


Enforcement of In-Kernel Stateful Security Policies via eBPF
is preserved across policy reloads: new programs are loaded, and
their target map is transferred from the old instance before the old
programs are detached, so there is no time window in which an
unconfigured monitor is live.
The user can control how much space is allocated to the monitor
memory, either directly or through one of four available profiles.
The daemon applies this choice before the loading phase and refuses
to start when the requested capacity is below the requirements
recorded by the compiler in the generated object.
The compiler and the daemon also implement two countermea-
sures against techniques an attacker may use to evade a policy.
These countermeasures are a first step towards strengthening the
threat model of Section 4, which assumes an attacker that does
not actively evade the deployed policies. The first targets evasion
through fork: a policy scoped to pid correlates events from a single
process, so an attacker who splits a kill chain across a fork would
present the monitor with two unrelated processes. The compiler,
therefore, emits additional programs that propagate a process’s
history to its children and reclaim it when the process exits. The
second targets evasion through file aliasing: a path is one of the
names of a file rather than the file itself, so symbolic and hard links,
bind mounts, and renames give an attacker distinct names for the
same file. When a policy mentions literal paths, the compiler keys
the match on the file’s identity and keeps it up to date as files are
created, aliased, or removed.
Beyond the core constructs of Section 5, the implementation
supports further language features to simplify policy creation. It
provides four additional temporal operators: bounded sequences
(sequence 𝑃1 then within Δ1 𝑃2 . . . ) for multi-step actions
with per-step deadlines, bounded until (while 𝑃1 then within
Δ 𝑃2) for asserting that a condition 𝑃2 must occur within Δ once
𝑃1 holds, bounded count (count 𝐸≥𝑁
within Δ) for detect-
ing 𝑁or more occurrences of an event in a sliding window, and
bounded safety (forbid P when G within Δ). Bounded sequences
desugar into independent bounded-response clauses of the base
temporal logic. Bounded until, count, and bounded safety are com-
piled via dedicated schemes. To promote reuse, the DSL supports
parameterized templates and policy inheritance. A policy can de-
clare parameters that are bound at instantiation time via the use
construct, allowing a single template to be reused across different
policies. A policy can also extend another, inheriting its clauses and
optionally adding or specializing them. Both mechanisms are re-
solved at desugaring time and do not affect the formal semantics of
the language. In addition, BPFence ships a standard library of event
schemas covering common Linux subsystems (file operations, pro-
cess lifecycle, network connections, raw kernel events) and reusable
policy templates, e.g., Chinese Wall, sandboxing, data-loss preven-
tion, and rate limiting. More details on all additional constructs,
their compilation, and the standard library are in Appendix C.
8.2
Experimental Evaluation
Our experimental evaluation addresses three research questions:
RQ1. What overhead does a BPFence monitor impose on hooked
system calls, and how does it scale with policy complexity?
RQ2. Can BPFence monitors block real attack patterns while
avoiding false positives on benign workloads?
Table 1: Monitor execution time per open/close syscall (base-
line without monitor: 1318 ns/op).
Configuration
BPF (ns/op)
Overhead
B-1
𝐶=1 clause
240 ± 2
18.2%
B-1
𝐶=5 clauses
249 ± 2
18.9%
B-1
𝐶=20 clauses
295 ± 2
22.4%
B-2
𝐻=1 predicate
260 ± 1
19.7%
B-2
𝐻=5 predicates
341 ± 2
25.9%
B-2
𝐻=10 predicates
432 ± 2
32.8%
B-3
𝐾=1−100 targets
61 ± 1
4.6%
B-4
No path extraction
71 ± 1
5.4%
B-5
Non-targeted process
61 ± 1
4.6%
RQ3. What policies can BPFence easily express and enforce that
existing tools cannot?
All experiments ran on a laptop with an Intel Core i7-1195G7 (4
cores, 8 threads, 2.90 GHz base clock), 32 GB RAM, Ubuntu 24.04,
Linux kernel 6.8.0. All runs were performed with the CPU frequency
pinned to the base clock (governor performance, turbo disabled).
8.2.1
RQ1: Runtime Overhead. We evaluated BPFence on five
micro-benchmarks (B-1 to B-5) and one macro-benchmark (B-6).
Micro-benchmarks. The micro-benchmarks use a synthetic work-
load consisting of a C program that invokes open/close syscalls
𝑁=100,000 times. The monitor execution time is measured via the
kernel’s built-in profiling infrastructure, which maintains, for each
loaded BPF program, a cumulative invocation counter (run_cnt)
and a cumulative execution-time counter (run_time_ns). By read-
ing both counters before and after the 𝑁syscalls, we compute the
per-invocation BPF cost as Δrun_time_ns/Δrun_cnt, where Δ de-
notes the difference between the two readings, obtaining a direct
kernel-level measurement without user-space timing noise. We
repeat this process for 𝑅=10 trials and report mean ± standard de-
viation. The overhead is computed as BPF cost/baseline cost × 100,
where the baseline cost (1318 ns/op) is measured via clock_gettime
without any BPF program loaded. The baseline was measured again
after each run: it drifted by less than 1%, and the CPU never throttled.
We generate synthetic policies attached to the security_file_open
LSM hook. Each policy defines an event open with a string field
(the file path), extracted via the kernel helper bpf_d_path.
Table 1 reports the results of these benchmarks. The first two
measure how the cost scales with the size of the policy. In bench-
mark B-1, we vary the number of forbid clauses (𝐶) and show that
the cost is nearly constant: from𝐶=1 to𝐶=20, the monitor execution
time grows from 240 to 295 ns (∼3 ns per additional clause). Bench-
mark B-2 varies the number of historical predicates (𝐻) in a policy
and shows a linear cost: each predicate requires one BPF hash-map
lookup, contributing ∼19 ns (from 260 ns at 𝐻=1 to 432 ns at 𝐻=10).
The other three benchmarks allow us to understand where the
fixed cost comes from. Benchmark B-4 repeats the measurement of
B-1 at 𝐶=1 with an event taking an integer parameter, eliminating
the call to bpf_d_path and the checks that accompany it: the cost
drops to 71 ns, showing that resolving the file path accounts for
∼169 ns, about 70% of the per-invocation cost. Benchmarks B-3 and


Letterio Galletta
B-5 measure a process that the policy does not target: the gener-
ated code checks the target map and returns before extracting the
event, so neither reaches bpf_d_path. Benchmark B-3 varies the
number of scoped targets (𝐾=1 to 100) on the same path-based
schema as B-1 at 𝐶=1. It confirms that the target lookup is constant
in 𝐾: all configurations yield 61 ± 1 ns. Benchmark B-5 repeats the
measurement on the integer schema of B-4, paying only 61 ns. In
all benchmarks except B-3 and B-5, we use global scope, which is a
worst case because every process pays the hook cost.
Macro-benchmark. To assess the impact on an application work-
load, we deploy a non-trivial policy on nginx serving a 1 KB static
file. We generate sustained HTTP load using wrk with 2 threads
and 100 connections, running each trial for 30 s and repeating for
𝑅=10 trials. The load generator and the server are pinned to disjoint
physical cores to prevent the measurement from being dominated
by contention between them. The considered policy combines the
post-exploitation sandbox (CS-1) with SSH lateral-movement detec-
tion (CS-5), both described in the next subsection. During normal
HTTP traffic, nginx never spawns a shell or reads SSH keys, so all
historical predicates remain false throughout the test; the monitor
still executes on every hooked syscall, but every guard evaluates
to false and no violation is triggered. This represents the common
case in production, where the monitor is active, but no attack is in
progress. Without any policy, nginx sustains 155,798 ± 666 req/s;
with the policy loaded, throughput drops to 147,223 ± 436 req/s, a
reduction of 5.5%. Using the same kernel counters as above, the per-
invocation BPF cost is 149 ns, consistent with the micro-benchmark
results for policies of comparable complexity.
Note that the per-invocation cost is not specific to BPFence, as
every BPF-LSM monitor pays this cost whenever a hooked oper-
ation occurs. In fact, the overhead of BPFence is similar to that
of other monitors that rely on LSM hooks. For example, BPFCon-
tain [17] reports 12.69–14.31% on Apache and up to 16.76% on
micro-benchmarks, and BPFBox [18] 1.0–15.0% across the Phoronix
suite. For the tools of Section 8.2.3, an independent study [22] re-
ports 9.79% for Tetragon and 9.96% for Falco on a per-execution
micro-benchmark, while their vendors report lower overheads. Our
results, 5.5% on nginx and 4.6–5.4% per hooked syscall when the
hook does not resolve a file path (B-3–B-5), sit at the low end of this
range. Our comparison is indicative only, as the overheads above
were measured across different workloads and machines.
8.2.2
RQ2: Attack Surface Reduction. We evaluated the effective-
ness of BPFence on the seven case studies (CS-1 to CS-7) of Table 2.
Each policy targets a post-exploitation syscall pattern associated
with a documented attack or CVE (third column); the original ex-
ploit is outside the scope of the policy. For each case study, we
execute two trigger programs: an attack trigger that reproduces
the syscall pattern, and a benign trigger that performs similar but
legitimate operations.
In all cases, the attack trigger is correctly blocked or alerted,
whereas the benign trigger completes without interference (zero
false negatives and zero false positives). In CS-1 (post-exploitation
sandbox), the policy detects when a server process spawns a shell
Table 2: Case studies: attack surface reduction. Outcome: how
the attack trigger is handled. In all cases the benign trigger
completes without interference.
Scenario
Motivation
Outcome
CS-1
Post-exploit. sandbox
Log4Shell [41]
Killed
CS-2
Resource exhaustion
Fork-bomb [38]
Alerted
CS-3
Container isol. (BLP)
CVE-2024-21626 [43]
Denied
CS-4
Data exfiltration
Equifax 2017 [46]
Denied
CS-5
3-step SSH kill chain
MITRE T1021 [35]
Killed
CS-6
Persistence + FD leak
Persistence [37]
Killed
CS-7
Clark-Wilson (E2)
Dirty Pipe [42]
Denied
and then prevents that shell from executing further binaries, open-
ing network connections, or writing configuration files. This be-
havioral pattern is common in post-exploitation steps. The policy
relies on a historical predicate to condition the enforcement on a
previous exec. In CS-2 (resource exhaustion), the policy raises an
alert when a process clones itself more than 100 times within a 1 s
time window, mitigating fork-bomb attacks, or opens more than
50 new connections within a 10 s sliding time window, mitigating
connection-flooding patterns. CS-3 (container isolation) enforces a
Bell–LaPadula no-read-up / no-write-down policy across container
cgroups, preventing information flows from a high-sensitivity con-
tainer to a low one via the host file system. In CS-4 (data exfiltration),
the policy detects when a process reads a sensitive file and sub-
sequently opens a network connection; it correlates two events
on different LSM hooks via cross-hook binding. Case study CS-5
(SSH lateral movement) was already presented in Section 3: the
policy detects a three-step kill chain in which the attacker reads
an SSH private key, opens an outbound connection on port 22, and
finally executes a command. The process is killed on the final exec.
In CS-6 (persistence containment + FD-leak watchdog), the policy
combines two clauses with different enforcement semantics: an
inline safety check kills the process if it attempts post-exploitation
persistence operations, e.g., exec(/usr/bin/crontab), or write to
/etc/passwd, after a shell has been spawned, while a liveness obli-
gation alerts when a file descriptor is opened but not closed within
30 s, mitigating resource-leak patterns. Case study CS-7 (Clark–
Wilson integrity) enforces the E2 rule of the Clark–Wilson model:
protected files (e.g., /etc/passwd, setuid binaries) can be modified
only by authorized processes. Any write from an unauthorized
process is denied, blocking attacks such as Dirty Pipe, in which an
unprivileged process bypasses standard permissions to overwrite a
protected file. The policy uses a negated history guard of the form
“forbid write unless an authorized program was executed”.
Additionally, the artifact includes six further case studies (CS-8
to CS-13), in which the attack trigger is a public proof-of-concept
exploit for a documented (patched upstream) kernel vulnerability,
and the policy forbids the system call patterns that may lead to
the attack, e.g., the use of exotic crypto sockets. Since a policy
describes the attack pattern rather than a specific bug, it may in-
tercept multiple vulnerabilities. For example, the policy of CS-8
covers copy_fail (CVE-2026-31431) and Fragnesia (CVE-2026-46300),
which affect different kernel subsystems but share the same behav-
ioral pattern: the setup of an exotic crypto socket followed by the


Enforcement of In-Kernel Stateful Security Policies via eBPF
execution of a setuid binary. These case studies show that BPFence
may also serve as a containment layer for this class of bugs when
the patch is not yet deployed.
8.2.3
RQ3: Comparison with Existing Tools. To compare BPFence
with production tools, we took four real rules from Falco [14]
and Tetragon [9], two well-known open-source projects, and re-
expressed each of them as a BPFence policy. The two Falco rules
are Read sensitive file untrusted [15] and Write below binary direc-
tories [16]: both belong to the default ruleset shipped with every
Falco installation and are among the most cited examples in the
project’s documentation and tutorials, targeting credential exfil-
tration and binary tampering, respectively. The two Tetragon poli-
cies are monitor-kernel-modules [10] and sys_mount [11], both
taken from the examples in the upstream repository, and cover two
attack surfaces that the documentation prominently advertises as
use cases: kernel-rootkit installation and mount-based container
escape. For each rule, we provide a direct port policy that reproduces
the upstream behavior, and one or more companion policies that
capture behavior the upstream rule cannot express. The policies
and their attack and benign triggers are in the online repository.
Falco’s Read sensitive file untrusted (∼35 LoC) matches reads
of credential, SSH-key, TLS-key, and Kubernetes-secret files per-
formed outside an allowlist of trusted readers, and raises an alert.
Our direct port policy (∼16 LoC) keeps the same set of paths, but
instead of a tracepoint uses the LSM hook security_file_open, so
the same event can be synchronously denied. A companion policy
denies the same reads only after the offending process has spawned
a shell, capturing a “shell exec →credential read” post-exploitation
kill chain [39]. Falco cannot express this stateful correlation, since
its rule language is single-event and stateless. For Write below binary
directories (∼19 LoC), we follow the same approach: a direct port
(∼16 LoC) denies writes to /bin, /sbin, /usr/bin, /usr/lib, and
similar locations, while the companion policy kills the offending
process when it attempts these writes after a shell spawn.
Tetragon’s monitor-kernel-modules policy (∼50 LoC) relies
on the security_kernel_module_request and do_init_module
hooks: it logs every attempt to load a kernel module but does not
block it. Our direct port policy (∼7 LoC) relies on the same hooks
but upgrades the action to a synchronous LSM deny, so the module
is rejected before it is linked into the kernel. We provide two com-
panion policies that perform cross-hook correlations that a single
Tetragon policy cannot express. The first synchronously blocks the
bpf() syscall when invoked with the argument BPF_PROG_LOAD
for loading a BPF program or with the argument BPF_MAP_CREATE
for creating a BPF map; the second policy blocks any bpf() syscall
after the same process has loaded a kernel module, capturing in a
single policy a kill chain in which an attacker first installs a kernel-
mode rootkit [34] and then leverages BPF for further in-kernel
persistence. Tetragon’s sys_mount policy (∼12 LoC) traces every
mount syscall and reports its source and target without filtering or
blocking. Our direct port policy (∼11 LoC) attaches to the LSM
hook security_sb_mount and synchronously denies mounts of
the filesystem types most commonly abused for container escape,
such as proc and sysfs. The two companion policies extend it,
considering multiple hooks: the first denies any bpf() syscall after
a suspicious mount has been observed, capturing a kill chain in
which an attacker first escapes the container by mounting host
filesystems [40] and then uses BPF to consolidate the breakout;
the second denies every outbound connect() after the process has
spawned a shell, capturing post-escape lateral movement [35].
We tested all four ports by providing an attack and a benign
trigger for each policy, following the same approach as in RQ2: in
every case the attack trigger is blocked, while the benign trigger
completes without interference. The following observations emerge
from the comparison. BPFence policies are typically shorter. Falco
rules are intrinsically alert-only and operate on a single hook, be-
cause they observe syscalls via tracepoints after the kernel has
executed them; re-expressing them in BPFence turns detection
into synchronous prevention with no change to the matching logic,
simply by attaching the same predicate to the corresponding LSM
hook. Tetragon supports synchronous enforcement, but its policies
are single-hook by construction, so cross-event correlations such as
“module load then BPF program load” or “shell exec then connect”
cannot be expressed in a single policy, whereas BPFence’s historical
predicates and when construct express these correlations directly
inside one policy. The comparison also revealed two matching prim-
itives that Tetragon offers and BPFence does not: testing whether
a specific bit is set in a syscall flag argument, and filtering on the
privileges of the calling process. We leave their implementation in
BPFence for future work.
9
Related Work
We discuss the two lines of research to which our work is closely
related: in-kernel security monitoring and runtime verification.
In-kernel security monitoring. Falco [14], Tetragon [9], and Kube-
Armor [29] are the industry references for eBPF-backed runtime
security: they express policies as YAML rules whose semantics is
defined only by the implementation, and they do not statically dis-
tinguish the hooks on which blocking is possible from those on
which it is not. We compared BPFence against Falco and Tetragon in
Section 8 (RQ3). The tool bpftrace [3] is complementary: a scripting
language for kernel tracing focused on observability, with no LSM
hook support and with write access restricted to error-injection
points. BPFBox [18] and BPFContain [17] compile process confine-
ment policies to eBPF LSM programs, demonstrating the feasibil-
ity of the hook point but without temporal or stateful operators.
Jia et al. [25] extend Seccomp-BPF with temporal specialization
and counter-based checks at the system-call boundary; both are
subsumed by BPFence’s policy language. More recently, eBPF-
PATROL [19] applies eBPF to runtime threat recognition in con-
tainerized environments, again without formal guarantees or a
type discipline. The closest system in spirit is the Linux kernel’s
own runtime verification subsystem [12, 32], upstream since v6.0,
which loads hand-drawn deterministic automata as kernel modules
attached to tracepoints and reacts to violations with printk or
panic. BPFence shares the same goal of being an online monitor
inside the kernel, but offers a DSL for the specification of policies
with a formal semantics and a type system that statically separates
controllable from merely observable hooks, delivers monitors as
eBPF programs rather than kernel modules, attaches to LSM hooks
as well, and scopes enforcement per process, namespace, or cgroup.


Letterio Galletta
Overall, none of these systems combines a policy language with
formal semantics, a type discipline separating controllable from
observable events, and provably correct compilation to in-kernel
monitors, which is what BPFence contributes.
Runtime verification. BPFence brings runtime verification inside
the kernel. The construction of finite-state monitors from temporal-
logic specifications dates back to the work of Bauer et al. [6] for
LTL and TLTL, and to the automata-based techniques of Havelund
and Roşu [21]. On the theoretical side, Schneider [44] and Basin et
al. [5] characterized the classes of policies enforceable by execu-
tion monitors; Aceto et al. [2] extended enforcement to first-order
branching-time properties, and Hublet et al. [23, 24] developed
proactive enforcement for metric first-order temporal logic together
with scalable implementations. At the tool level, MonPoly [4] moni-
tors metric first-order temporal properties over logs, JavaMOP [26]
compiles parametric specifications into aspect-oriented instrumen-
tation, and DejaVu [20] targets first-order past-time logic; decen-
tralized variants such as RIARC [1] address the instrumentation
of reactive components. All of these monitors rely on very expres-
sive logics and run in user space, in the same address space as
the monitored program, or offline over recorded traces; BPFence
aims at in-kernel policy enforcement and realizes monitor synthesis
under the constraints of the eBPF verifier: bounded memory, no
unbounded loops, a fixed instruction budget. In-kernel enforcement
requires trading off the expressiveness of the policy language with
implementation constraints, as done in Section 7.
10
Conclusion
We have presented BPFence, a runtime-verification framework
to enforce trace-based security policies inside the Linux kernel.
BPFence offers a policy language with a formal semantics over exe-
cution traces and a type system that statically separates controllable
from observable events. It then synthesizes, from every well-typed
policy, a correct finite-state monitor, and compiles it to eBPF pro-
grams that run synchronously inside the kernel. We implemented a
PoC that includes a compiler and a runtime daemon to manage the
policy life-cycle. We have evaluated our implementation on seven
case studies drawn from real-world attack patterns and on micro-
and macro-benchmarks to show that stateful security policies can
be enforced inside the kernel with an acceptable overhead. Finally,
we have qualitatively evaluated the expressiveness of our policy
language against upstream Falco and Tetragon rules, showing that
our language can prevent more complex attack patterns than these
widely adopted tools.
BPFence inherits two structural limitations from its target en-
vironment. First, synchronous enforcement is only possible on
events mediated by an LSM hook: policies whose violating events
occur only through tracepoints or kprobes can be detected but not
prevented. Second, the eBPF execution model forbids dynamic allo-
cation; as a consequence, the monitor state is stored in fixed-size
maps, whose capacity is set when a policy is loaded and checked
against the requirements computed at compile time.
There are several directions in which to extend the present work.
On the language side, we plan to introduce richer predicates and
inline aggregations, and lift correlation from kernel identities (pid,
tgid, cgroup) to causal ones (process trees and data-flow taint):
the propagation of history across fork (Section 8.1) is a first step,
but attacks that spread through execve or across cooperating pro-
cesses require the unit of monitoring itself to be defined by causal-
ity rather than by a declared scope. On the formal side, we are
interested in mechanizing our soundness proof and in monitor-
ing hyperproperties such as non-interference, which lie beyond
plain trace properties. On the deployment side, we plan to explore
distributed enforcement across a cluster of containers, automatic
policy synthesis from high-level intents or from observed benign
behavior, and integration with container orchestrators to tie the
life-cycle of policies to that of the workloads they protect.
Acknowledgments
We thank the anonymous reviewers for their comments and sugges-
tions, which helped improve the paper. This work has been partially
supported by RDS PTR 25-27 CYBER 2.1 “Progetto Cybersecurity”
WP3 LA 3.21 – CUP: D63C24001060001.
References
[1] Luca Aceto, Duncan Paul Attard, Adrian Francalanza, and Anna Ingólfsdóttir.
2024. Runtime Instrumentation for Reactive Components. In ECOOP (LIPIcs).
Schloss Dagstuhl - Leibniz-Zentrum für Informatik, Dagstuhl, Germany, 2:1–2:33.
doi:10.4230/LIPIcs.ECOOP.2024.2
[2] Luca Aceto, Ian Cassar, Adrian Francalanza, and Anna Ingólfsdóttir. 2023. On
First-Order Runtime Enforcement of Branching-Time Properties. Acta Informat-
ica 60, 4 (2023), 385–451. doi:10.1007/s00236-023-00441-9
[3] Alastair Robertson. 2024. bpftrace: High-Level Tracing Language for Linux.
https://bpftrace.org/. Accessed: April 20, 2026.
[4] David A. Basin, Matús Harvan, Felix Klaedtke, and Eugen Zalinescu. 2011. MON-
POLY: Monitoring Usage-Control Policies. In RV (Lecture Notes in Computer Sci-
ence). Springer, Berlin, Heidelberg, 360–364. doi:10.1007/978-3-642-29860-8_27
[5] David A. Basin, Vincent Jugé, Felix Klaedtke, and Eugen Zalinescu. 2013. En-
forceable Security Policies Revisited. ACM Trans. Inf. Syst. Secur. 16, 1 (2013), 3.
doi:10.1145/2487222.2487225
[6] Andreas Bauer, Martin Leucker, and Christian Schallhart. 2011. Runtime Veri-
fication for LTL and TLTL. ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol. 20, 4, Article 14
(2011), 64 pages. doi:10.1145/2000799.2000800
[7] D.F.C. Brewer and M.J. Nash. 1989. The Chinese Wall security policy. In Proceed-
ings. 1989 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy. 206–214. doi:10.1109/SECPRI.
1989.36295
[8] Canonical Ltd. 2024. AppArmor: Application Armor. https://apparmor.net.
[9] Cilium Project. 2024. Tetragon: eBPF-based Security Observability and Runtime
Enforcement. https://tetragon.io.
[10] Cilium
Project.
2024.
Tetragon
TracingPolicy:
monitor-kernel-modules.yaml.
https://github.com/cilium/tetragon/blob/
main/examples/tracingpolicy/host-changes/monitor-kernel-modules.yaml.
[11] Cilium Project. 2024. Tetragon TracingPolicy: sys_mount.yaml. https://github.
com/cilium/tetragon/blob/main/examples/tracingpolicy/sys_mount.yaml.
[12] Daniel Bristot de Oliveira, Tommaso Cucinotta, and Rômulo Silva de Oliveira.
2019. Efficient Formal Verification for the Linux Kernel. In Software Engineer-
ing and Formal Methods: 17th International Conference, SEFM 2019, Proceedings.
Springer-Verlag, Berlin, Heidelberg, 315–332. doi:10.1007/978-3-030-30446-1_17
[13] eBPF Foundation. 2023. eBPF: Dynamically program the kernel for efficient
networking, observability, tracing, and security. https://ebpf.io.
[14] Falco Project. 2023. Falco: Cloud-Native Runtime Security. https://falco.org/
docs/.
[15] Falco Project. 2024. Falco default rule: Read sensitive file untrusted. https://falco.
org/docs/reference/rules/default-rules/#Read_sensitive_file_untrusted.
[16] Falco Project. 2024. Falco default rule: Write below binary directories. https:
//falco.org/docs/reference/rules/default-rules/#Write_below_binary_dir.
[17] William Findlay, David Barrera, and Anil Somayaji. 2021. BPFContain: Fixing
the Soft Underbelly of Container Security. arXiv preprint arXiv:2102.06972.
[18] William Findlay, Anil Somayaji, and David Barrera. 2020. bpfbox: Simple Precise
Process Confinement with eBPF. In Proceedings of the 2020 ACM SIGSAC Confer-
ence on Cloud Computing Security Workshop (CCSW). Association for Computing
Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 91–103. doi:10.1145/3411495.3421358
[19] Sangam Ghimire, Nirjal Bhurtel, Roshan Sahani, and Sudan Jha. 2025. eBPF-
PATROL: Protective Agent for Threat Recognition and Overreach Limitation
using eBPF in Containerized and Virtualized Environments. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2511.18155.


Enforcement of In-Kernel Stateful Security Policies via eBPF
[20] Klaus Havelund, Doron Peled, and Dogan Ulus. 2018. DejaVu: A Monitoring Tool
for First-Order Temporal Logic. In MT@CPSWeek. IEEE, 12–13. doi:10.1109/MT-
CPS.2018.00013
[21] Klaus Havelund and Grigore Rosu. 2004. An Overview of the Runtime Verification
Tool Java PathExplorer. Formal Methods Syst. Des. 24, 2 (2004), 189–215.
[22] Jin Her, Jongseop Kim, Jinwoo Kim, and Seungsoo Lee. 2025. An In-Depth
Analysis of eBPF-Based System Security Tools in Cloud-Native Environments.
IEEE Access 13 (2025), 155588–155604. doi:10.1109/ACCESS.2025.3605432
[23] François Hublet, Leonardo Lima, David Basin, Srđan Krstić, and Dmitriy Traytel.
2024. Proactive Real-Time First-Order Enforcement. In Computer Aided Verifica-
tion (CAV). Springer Nature Switzerland, Cham, 156–181. doi:10.1007/978-3-031-
65630-9_8
[24] François Hublet, Leonardo Lima, David Basin, Srđan Krstić, and Dmitriy Traytel.
2025. Scaling Up Proactive Enforcement. In Computer Aided Verification (CAV).
Springer Nature Switzerland, Cham, 370–392. doi:10.1007/978-3-031-98682-6_19
[25] Jinghao Jia, YiFei Zhu, Dan Williams, Andrea Arcangeli, Claudio Canella, Hu-
bertus Franke, Tobin Feldman-Fitzthum, Dimitrios Skarlatos, Daniel Gruss,
and Tianyin Xu. 2023.
Programmable System Call Security with eBPF.
arXiv:2302.10366
[26] Dongyun Jin, Patrick O’Neil Meredith, Choonghwan Lee, and Grigore Rosu. 2012.
JavaMOP: Efficient parametric runtime monitoring framework. In ICSE. IEEE
Computer Society, 1427–1430. doi:10.1109/ICSE.2012.6227231
[27] The kernel development community. 2012. Seccomp-BPF: A Sandboxing Mecha-
nism for Linux. https://www.kernel.org/doc/html/v4.13/userspace-api/seccomp_
filter.html.
[28] Stephen Cole Kleene. 1952. Introduction to Metamathematics. Ishi Press Interna-
tional.
[29] KubeArmor Project. 2024. KubeArmor: Cloud-Native Runtime Security Enforce-
ment System. https://kubearmor.io.
[30] Letterio Galletta. 2026. Enforcement of In-Kernel Stateful Security Policies via
eBPF (Artifact). https://github.com/lillo/bpfence.
[31] Linux kernel developers. 2024. Kernel Probes (Kprobes). Linux kernel documen-
tation, https://www.kernel.org/doc/html/latest/trace/kprobes.html.
[32] Linux kernel developers. 2024. Runtime Verification. Linux kernel documentation,
https://docs.kernel.org/trace/rv/runtime-verification.html.
[33] Linux kernel developers. 2024. Using the Linux Kernel Tracepoints. Linux kernel
documentation, https://www.kernel.org/doc/html/latest/trace/tracepoints.html.
[34] MITRE ATT&CK. 2024. T1014: Rootkit. https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/
T1014/. Accessed: April 20, 2026.
[35] MITRE ATT&CK. 2024.
T1021: Remote Services.
https://attack.mitre.org/
techniques/T1021/. Accessed: April 20, 2026.
[36] MITRE ATT&CK. 2024. T1021.004: Remote Services: SSH, Sub-technique. https:
//attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1021/004/. Accessed: April 20, 2026.
[37] MITRE ATT&CK. 2024. T1053: Scheduled Task/Job. https://attack.mitre.org/
techniques/T1053/. Accessed: April 20, 2026.
[38] MITRE ATT&CK. 2024. T1499: Endpoint Denial of Service. https://attack.mitre.
org/techniques/T1499/. Accessed: April 20, 2026.
[39] MITRE ATT&CK. 2024. T1552: Unsecured Credentials. https://attack.mitre.org/
techniques/T1552/. Accessed: April 20, 2026.
[40] MITRE ATT&CK. 2024.
T1611: Escape to Host.
https://attack.mitre.org/
techniques/T1611/. Accessed: April 20, 2026.
[41] National Institute of Standards and Technology. 2021. CVE-2021-44228 Detail
– National Vulnerability Database. https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/cve-2021-
44228. Accessed: April 20, 2026.
[42] National Institute of Standards and Technology. 2022. CVE-2022-0847 Detail –
National Vulnerability Database. https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/cve-2022-0847.
Accessed: April 20, 2026.
[43] National Institute of Standards and Technology. 2024. CVE-2024-21626 Detail
– National Vulnerability Database. https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/cve-2024-
21626. Accessed: April 20, 2026.
[44] Fred B. Schneider. 2000. Enforceable Security Policies. ACM Trans. Inf. Syst.
Secur. 3, 1 (2000), 30–50. doi:10.1145/353323.353382
[45] Stephen Smalley, Chris Vance, and Wayne Salamon. 2001. Implementing SELinux
as a Linux Security Module. Technical Report. NAI Labs.
[46] U.S. Government Accountability Office. 2018. Data Protection: Actions Taken by
Equifax and Federal Agencies in Response to the 2017 Breach. Technical Report
GAO-18-559. GAO. https://www.gao.gov/products/gao-18-559
[47] Chris Wright, Crispin Cowan, Stephen Smalley, James Morris, and Greg Kroah-
Hartman. 2002. Linux Security Modules: General Security Support for the
Linux Kernel. In 11th USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 02). USENIX
Association, San Francisco, CA, 17–31.
A
Generative AI Usage
During the preparation of this work, the author used Anthropic’s
Claude Code to scaffold the structure of the paper, revise its text,
and develop the prototype implementation and the scripts needed
for the experimental evaluations in Section 8 and for packaging the
artifact. After using this tool, the author reviewed and edited the
content of the paper as needed, and manually inspected, validated
and tested the generated code. The author takes full responsibility
for the final content of the publication.
B
Formal Development
B.1
Policy Language
B.1.1
Well-formedness Conditions. We define well-formedness con-
ditions for the temporal logic of Section 5.2. We first define the
function bnd to compute the set of variables whose bindings prop-
agate to the enclosing context in a guard 𝑔, an event predicate 𝑃,
and a temporal formula 𝜙(below, 𝛼.𝑔denotes the guard of 𝛼):
bnd(true) = bnd(field ∼ℓ) = ∅
bnd(field = ?𝑋) = {𝑋}
bnd(field = 𝑋) = ∅
bnd(𝑔1 ∧𝑔2) = bnd(𝑔1) ∪bnd(𝑔2)
bnd(𝛼) = bnd(𝛼.𝑔)
bnd(¬𝑃) = bnd(𝑃)
bnd(𝑃1 ∧𝑃2) = bnd(𝑃1 ∨𝑃2) = bnd(𝑃1) ∪bnd(𝑃2)
bnd(𝜙1 ∧𝜙2) = bnd(𝜙1) ∪bnd(𝜙2)
bnd(¬𝜙) = bnd(𝜙)
bnd(<𝜙) = bnd(𝐺𝜙) = bnd(𝑃1 𝐹≤Δ 𝑃2) = ∅
Note that for the operators 𝐺𝜙, <𝜙, and 𝐹≤Δ, the set of variables is
∅due to an intrinsic property of each operator: in all three cases,
the semantics returns the environment 𝜌unchanged — 𝐺and 𝐹≤Δ
return 𝜌invariant explicitly in their semantic clauses, and <𝜙eval-
uates 𝜙under the empty environment and returns 𝜌unchanged. No
new binding reaches the outer context, so computing ∅faithfully
reflects the semantics.
Figure 4 shows the well-formedness conditions for guards, event
predicates, and temporal formulas (we denote by 𝜌∪𝑉the environ-
ment obtained by extending 𝜌with a binding to a placeholder value
for each variable in 𝑉). A guard 𝑔is well formed under an environ-
ment 𝜌, written 𝜌⊢𝑔wf, iff it satisfies the rules G*. Intuitively, for
each sub-term 𝑔1 ∧𝑔2 where 𝑔2 contains a constraint field = 𝑋, it
must hold that 𝑋∈dom(𝜌) ∪bnd(𝑔1). Similarly, an event predicate
𝑃is well formed under an environment 𝜌, written 𝜌⊢𝑃wf, iff it
satisfies the rules P*. Intuitively, these rules enforce the follow-
ing conditions: for each conjunction 𝑃1 ∧𝑃2 where 𝑃2 includes a
constraint field = 𝑋, it must hold that 𝑋∈dom(𝜌) ∪bnd(𝑃1); no
binding ?𝑋may be introduced under disjunction ∨.
A temporal formula 𝜙is well formed under an environment 𝜌,
in symbols 𝜌⊢𝜙wf, iff it satisfies the rules F*. Intuitively, rule
FAnd requires that for each conjunction 𝜙1 ∧𝜙2 where 𝜙2 includes
a constraint field = 𝑋, it must hold that 𝑋∈dom(𝜌) ∪bnd(𝜙1):
bindings introduced by 𝜙1 are visible in 𝜙2. Rule FNeg has two
independent premises: 𝜌⊢𝜙wf ensures that 𝜙is well formed under
𝜌, and bnd(𝜙) = ∅ensures that no binding escapes from the negated
formula. These premises are independent: a formula can be well
formed and still produce bindings. The second premise is necessary
because under negation a binding may never actually be produced:
if 𝜙evaluates to violated, no field was matched and no variable
was bound. Allowing bindings to escape from ¬𝜙would therefore
be unsound. Rule FPast requires only bnd(𝜙) ∪use(𝜙) = ∅, i.e., 𝜙
neither introduces nor uses correlation variables. A formula with
no variables is well formed under any environment, so the explicit


Letterio Galletta
GTrue
𝜌⊢true wf
GLit
𝜌⊢field ∼ℓwf
GBind
𝑋∉dom(𝜌)
𝜌⊢field = ?𝑋wf
GConstr
𝑋∈dom(𝜌)
𝜌⊢field = 𝑋wf
GAnd
𝜌⊢𝑔1 wf
𝜌∪bnd(𝑔1) ⊢𝑔2 wf
𝜌⊢𝑔1 ∧𝑔2 wf
PAtom
𝜌⊢𝛼.𝑔wf
𝜌⊢𝛼wf
PNeg
𝜌⊢𝑃wf
bnd(𝑃) = ∅
𝜌⊢¬𝑃wf
PAnd
𝜌⊢𝑃1 wf
𝜌∪bnd(𝑃1) ⊢𝑃2 wf
𝜌⊢𝑃1 ∧𝑃2 wf
Por
𝜌⊢𝑃1 wf
𝜌⊢𝑃2 wf
bnd(𝑃1) = ∅
bnd(𝑃2) = ∅
𝜌⊢𝑃1 ∨𝑃2 wf
FAnd
𝜌⊢𝜙1 wf
𝜌∪bnd(𝜙1) ⊢𝜙2 wf
𝜌⊢𝜙1 ∧𝜙2 wf
FNeg
𝜌⊢𝜙wf
bnd(𝜙) = ∅
𝜌⊢¬𝜙wf
FPast
bnd(𝜙) ∪use(𝜙) = ∅
𝜌⊢<𝜙wf
FAlways
𝜌⊢𝜙wf
𝜌⊢𝐺𝜙wf
FResp
𝜌⊢𝑃1 wf
𝜌∪bnd(𝑃1) ⊢𝑃2 wf
𝜌⊢𝑃1 𝐹≤Δ 𝑃2 wf
Figure 4: Well-formedness conditions for guards, event predicates, and temporal formulas.
premise 𝜌⊢𝜙wf would be redundant and is omitted. The condition
ensures that the semantics of <𝜙evaluates 𝜙on past prefixes under
the empty environment, independently of the current 𝜌. If𝜙referred
to variables bound in 𝜌, those bindings would be unavailable at
past positions, making the evaluation ill-defined. Rule FAlways
is direct: we check 𝜙is well formed. Rule FResp mirrors FAnd:
the bindings introduced by 𝑃1 are visible in 𝑃2, expressed by the
premise 𝜌∪bnd(𝑃1) ⊢𝑃2 wf.
B.1.2
Event Predicate Semantics. Let𝑒be an event and 𝜌: V →Val
a correlation environment. The semantics of an event predicate is
defined by the function J·K𝑎: P × E × Env →𝐾3 × Env, where
P is the set of event predicates, E is the set of events, Env is the
set of correlation environments, and 𝐾3 is the set {true, false, na}.
The function J·K𝑎is defined inductively on the syntax of event
predicates as follows (below ∼is an operator in {=, ≠, <, ≤, >, ≥}):
Atoms: Given an event atom 𝛼= (𝐸,𝑔):
J𝛼K𝑎(𝑒, 𝜌) =
(
J𝑔K(𝑒, 𝜌)
if 𝑒.type = 𝐸
(na, 𝜌)
otherwise
where J𝑔K(𝑒, 𝜌) = (𝑏, 𝜌′) is inductively defined as:
JtrueK(𝑒, 𝜌) =  true, 𝜌
Jfield = ?𝑋K(𝑒, 𝜌) =  true, 𝜌[𝑋↦→𝑒.params[field]]
if 𝑋∉dom(𝜌)
Jfield = 𝑋K(𝑒, 𝜌) =  𝑒.params[field] = 𝜌(𝑋), 𝜌
if 𝑋∈dom(𝜌)
Jfield ∼ℓK(𝑒, 𝜌) =  𝑒.params[field] ∼ℓ, 𝜌
J𝑔1 ∧𝑔2K(𝑒, 𝜌) = (𝑏1 ∧𝑏2, 𝜌2),
(𝑏𝑖, 𝜌𝑖) = J𝑔𝑖K(𝑒, 𝜌𝑖−1), 𝜌0 = 𝜌
Negation:
J¬𝑃K𝑎(𝑒, 𝜌) =
(
(¬𝑏, 𝜌)
if 𝑏= 𝜋1
 J𝑃K𝑎(𝑒, 𝜌) ∈{true, false}
(na, 𝜌)
otherwise
Note that we do not add new bindings to the environment 𝜌: the
well-formedness condition ensures that ¬𝑃introduces no new bind-
ings.
Conjunction:
J𝑃1 ∧𝑃2K𝑎(𝑒, 𝜌) = 𝑟
where (𝑏1, 𝜌1) = J𝑃1K𝑎(𝑒, 𝜌) and
𝑟=


(false, 𝜌)
if 𝑏1 = false
(true, 𝜌2)
if 𝑏1 = true ∧(true, 𝜌2) = J𝑃2K𝑎(𝑒, 𝜌1)
(false, 𝜌)
if (false, 𝜌1) = J𝑃2K𝑎(𝑒, 𝜌1)
(na, 𝜌)
otherwise
Note that the bindings introduced by 𝑃1 are visible in 𝑃2 (the con-
junction is not commutative).
Disjunction:
J𝑃1 ∨𝑃2K𝑎(𝑒, 𝜌) = (𝑣, 𝜌)
where (𝑏1, 𝜌) = J𝑃1K𝑎(𝑒, 𝜌), (𝑏2, 𝜌) = J𝑃2K𝑎(𝑒, 𝜌), and 𝑣is
𝑣=


true
if 𝑏1 = true ∨𝑏2 = true
false
if 𝑏1 = false ∧𝑏2 = false
na
otherwise
Note that 𝑃1 and 𝑃2 contain no binding by the well-formedness
condition, so the environment always remains the same.
Hereafter, we write J𝑃K𝑎(𝑒, 𝜌) = 𝑣, for𝑣∈𝐾3, to mean 𝜋1(J𝑃K𝑎(𝑒, 𝜌)) =
𝑣, when the resulting environment is immaterial.
B.1.3
Temporal Formulas Semantics. The evaluation function J·K is
inductively defined over the syntax of temporal formulas. Below, we
report the semantics for all the constructs except for the bounded
response, whose semantics is in Section 5.
For an event predicate 𝑃:
J𝑃K(𝜎𝑘, 𝜌) =


(ok, 𝜌′)
if J𝑃K𝑎(𝑒𝑘, 𝜌) = (true, 𝜌′)
(violated, 𝜌)
if J𝑃K𝑎(𝑒𝑘, 𝜌) = (false, 𝜌)
(pending, 𝜌)
if J𝑃K𝑎(𝑒𝑘, 𝜌) = (na, 𝜌)
In case of violation, 𝜌does not change: no new binding occurs. If
𝑒𝑘is irrelevant to the current predicate 𝑃, the result is pending: we
postpone the decision.
For the ¬ operator:
J¬𝜙K(𝜎𝑘, 𝜌) =


(violated, 𝜌)
if J𝜙K(𝜎𝑘, 𝜌) = (ok, 𝜌)
(ok, 𝜌)
if J𝜙K(𝜎𝑘, 𝜌) = (violated, 𝜌)
(pending, 𝜌)
otherwise
By our well-formedness conditions, no bindings are introduced, so
𝜌remains the same.
For conjunction:
J𝜙1 ∧𝜙2K(𝜎𝑘, 𝜌) = (𝑣, 𝜌2)


Enforcement of In-Kernel Stateful Security Policies via eBPF
where (𝑣1, 𝜌1) = J𝜙1K(𝜎𝑘, 𝜌), (𝑣2, 𝜌2) = J𝜙2K(𝜎𝑘, 𝜌1), and
𝑣=


violated
if 𝑣1 = violated or 𝑣2 = violated
pending
if 𝑣1 = pending or 𝑣2 = pending
ok
otherwise
The bindings introduced by 𝜙1 are visible in 𝜙2. We adopt an evalu-
ation order from left to right to take care of bindings.
For the once operator:
J<𝜙K(𝜎𝑘, 𝜌) =
(
(ok, 𝜌)
if ∃𝑖≤𝑘. 𝜋1(J𝜙K(𝜎𝑖, 𝜌)) = ok
(pending, 𝜌)
otherwise
The once operator <𝜙holds on a prefix 𝜎𝑘if 𝜙held at some position
𝑖≤𝑘, including the current one. It never produces violated: the
absence of a past satisfaction yields pending, not a violation, since
no finite prefix can witness that𝜙will never hold. Consequently, <𝜙
is monotone: once ok, it remains ok on all subsequent prefixes. Note
that the environment 𝜌is returned unchanged: the well-formedness
condition ensures that 𝜙neither introduces nor uses correlation
variables, so its evaluation is independent of 𝜌.
For the always operator:
J𝐺𝜙K(𝜎𝑘, 𝜌) =
(
(violated, 𝜌)
if ∃𝑖≤𝑘. 𝜋1(J𝜙K(𝜎𝑖, 𝜌)) = violated
(ok, 𝜌)
otherwise
where 𝜋1 is the standard projection operator. This operator ex-
presses safety properties: every violation is due to a finite bad pre-
fix. Consequently, 𝐺𝜙can only be ok or violated, never pending
because it does not require that something happen in the future.
B.1.4
Formal Results.
Theorem 5.5 (Violation Persistence). For every DSL program
Π and finite traces 𝜎𝑘, 𝜎𝑗such that 𝜎𝑘is a prefix of 𝜎𝑗, if JΠK(𝜎𝑘) =
violated then JΠK(𝜎𝑗) = violated.
Proof. We proceed by induction on 𝑗−𝑘≥0.
Base case (𝑗−𝑘= 0): trivial, 𝜎𝑗= 𝜎𝑘and the conclusion holds by
hypothesis.
Inductive step (𝑛= 𝑗−𝑘> 0): As the inductive hypothesis, assume
the proposition holds for all pairs (𝜎𝑘, 𝜎𝑗′) with 𝑗′ −𝑘< 𝑛. We need
to show the proposition for (𝜎𝑘, 𝜎𝑗) with 𝑗−𝑘= 𝑛. Since 𝑛> 0, the
prefix 𝜎𝑗−1 exists and 𝜎𝑘is a prefix of 𝜎𝑗−1 with (𝑗−1)−𝑘= 𝑛−1 < 𝑛.
By the inductive hypothesis applied to (𝜎𝑘, 𝜎𝑗−1) we have:
JΠK(𝜎𝑗−1) = violated.
Now, let 𝜙be the denotation of the program Π. By the definition
of the semantic function, 𝜙has the form Ó𝑟
ℓ=1 𝐺(𝜓ℓ), which can be
rewritten as 𝐺(𝜓) with 𝜓= Ó𝑟
ℓ=1𝜓ℓ.By the semantics of 𝐺:
J𝐺(𝜓)K(𝜎𝑗−1, ∅) = violated =⇒∃ℎ≤𝑗−1. 𝜋1(J𝜓K(𝜎ℎ, ∅)) = violated.
Since ℎ≤𝑗−1 < 𝑗, the same ℎwitnesses J𝐺𝜓K(𝜎𝑗, ∅) = violated,
thus proving the thesis.
□
Proposition 5.6 (Existence of the first violating prefix).
Let Π be a DSL program and 𝜎𝑘be a finite trace such that JΠK(𝜎𝑘) =
violated. There exists a unique prefix 𝜎𝑖∗of 𝜎𝑘such that
𝑖∗= min{ 𝑖≤𝑘| JΠK(𝜎𝑖) = violated }.
We call 𝜎𝑖∗the first violating prefix of 𝜎𝑘.
Proof. The set 𝑆= {𝑖≤𝑘| JΠK(𝜎𝑖) = violated} is non-empty
since 𝑘∈𝑆by hypothesis, and finite since 𝑆⊆{1, . . . ,𝑘}. Hence
𝑖∗= min𝑆exists and is unique.
□
The following proposition ensures that a formula introducing
no binding leaves the correlation environment unchanged:
Proposition B.1 (Environment invariance). For every tempo-
ral formula 𝜙such that bnd(𝜙) = ∅, every finite trace 𝜎𝑘, and every
environment 𝜌, there exists 𝑣∈B3 such that
J𝜙K(𝜎𝑘, 𝜌) = (𝑣, 𝜌).
Proof. We proceed by structural induction on 𝜙. For the nega-
tion, once, always, and bounded-response cases, the thesis follows
immediately from the corresponding semantic clauses, which re-
turn 𝜌unchanged. For an event predicate 𝑃, bnd(𝑃) = ∅means
that 𝑃contains no binding field = ?𝑋, hence J𝑃K𝑎(𝑒𝑘, 𝜌) returns 𝜌
unchanged; by the semantics of predicates as formulas, J𝑃K(𝜎𝑘, 𝜌)
returns 𝜌as well. For 𝜙1 ∧𝜙2 we have bnd(𝜙1) = bnd(𝜙2) = ∅;
by the induction hypothesis on 𝜙1 we have that J𝜙1K(𝜎𝑘, 𝜌) leaves
the environment unchanged, so 𝜙2 is evaluated under 𝜌. The thesis
thus follows by the induction hypothesis on 𝜙2.
□
Below, we prove distributivity of 𝐺over conjunction against the
three-valued semantics of Section 5.2.
Proposition B.2 (Distributivity of 𝐺over ∧). For all tempo-
ral formulas 𝜙1,𝜙2 such that bnd(𝜙1) = ∅, all finite traces 𝜎𝑘, and
all environments 𝜌:
𝜋1(J𝐺(𝜙1) ∧𝐺(𝜙2)K(𝜎𝑘, 𝜌)) = 𝜋1(J𝐺(𝜙1 ∧𝜙2)K(𝜎𝑘, 𝜌)).
Proof. Since 𝐺always results in ok or violated, never pending,
we show that the two sides agree on violated; the ok case is similar.
By the semantics of 𝐺and conjunction:
𝜋1(J𝐺(𝜙1) ∧𝐺(𝜙2)K(𝜎𝑘, 𝜌)) = violated
⇐⇒𝜋1(J𝐺(𝜙1)K(𝜎𝑘, 𝜌)) = violated ∨
𝜋1(J𝐺(𝜙2)K(𝜎𝑘, 𝜌)) = violated
⇐⇒ ∃𝑖≤𝑘. 𝜋1(J𝜙1K(𝜎𝑖, 𝜌)) = violated ∨
 ∃𝑗≤𝑘. 𝜋1(J𝜙2K(𝜎𝑗, 𝜌)) = violated
and, by Proposition B.1, the hypothesis bnd(𝜙1) = ∅ensures that
in J𝜙1 ∧𝜙2K(𝜎𝑖, 𝜌) the second conjunct is evaluated under 𝜌as well,
hence:
𝜋1(J𝐺(𝜙1 ∧𝜙2)K(𝜎𝑘, 𝜌)) = violated
⇐⇒∃𝑖≤𝑘. 𝜋1(J𝜙1 ∧𝜙2K(𝜎𝑖, 𝜌)) = violated
⇐⇒∃𝑖≤𝑘. 𝜋1(J𝜙1K(𝜎𝑖, 𝜌)) = violated ∨
𝜋1(J𝜙2K(𝜎𝑖, 𝜌)) = violated.
The two conditions are logically equivalent by the propositional
equivalence  ∃𝑖. 𝐴(𝑖) ∨ ∃𝑗. 𝐵(𝑗)
⇐⇒
∃𝑖. 𝐴(𝑖) ∨𝐵(𝑖).
□


Letterio Galletta
PEvent
Γ ⊢(𝐸,𝑔) : Γ(𝐸)
PNeg
Γ ⊢𝑃: 𝜏
Γ ⊢¬𝑃: 𝜏
PAnd
Γ ⊢𝑃1 : 𝜏1
Γ ⊢𝑃2 : 𝜏2
Γ ⊢𝑃1 ∧𝑃2 : 𝜏1 ⊔𝜏2
POr
Γ ⊢𝑃1 : 𝜏1
Γ ⊢𝑃2 : 𝜏2
Γ ⊢𝑃1 ∨𝑃2 : 𝜏1 ⊔𝜏2
Comp
Γ; Θ ⊢𝑝1 : 𝜏1
Γ; Θ ⊢𝑝2 : 𝜏2
Γ; Θ ⊢𝑝1 ∧𝑝2 : 𝜏1 ⊔𝜏2
Forbid
Γ ⊢𝑃: 𝜏
Γ; Θ ⊢forbid 𝑃: 𝜏
ForbidWhen
Γ ⊢𝑃: 𝜏
𝜏𝐻= Θ(𝐻)
Γ; Θ ⊢forbid 𝑃when 𝐻: 𝜏⊔𝜏𝐻
Response
Γ ⊢𝑃1 : 𝜏1
Γ ⊢𝑃2 : 𝜏2
Γ; Θ ⊢when 𝑃1 then within Δ 𝑃2 : 𝑇
DEmpty
Γ; Θ ⊢𝜖: Θ
DLet1
𝐻∉dom(Θ)
Γ ⊢𝑃: 𝜏
Γ; Θ[𝐻↦→𝜏] ⊢𝑑∗: Θ′
Γ; Θ ⊢(let 𝐻:= happened(𝑃)) 𝑑∗: Θ′
DLet2
𝐻∉dom(Θ)
𝐻′ ∈dom(Θ)
Γ ⊢𝑃: 𝜏
Γ; Θ[𝐻↦→𝜏⊔Θ(𝐻′)] ⊢𝑑∗: Θ′
Γ; Θ ⊢(let 𝐻:= happened(𝑃) when 𝐻′) 𝑑∗: Θ′
Prog
Γ; ∅⊢𝑑∗: Θ
Γ; Θ ⊢𝑝: 𝜏
Allowed(𝜏,𝐴)
Γ ⊢⟨𝑑∗𝑝, 𝐴⟩: ✓
Figure 5: Typing rules for BPFence DSL.
B.1.5
Type System. Figure 5 shows all the typing rules of our type
system. We briefly comment on the rules not already discussed in
Section 5.4. Rule PNeg obtains the type of 𝑃and returns it since the
negation operator does not change the way a violation may occur.
Rule POr is similar to the rule for conjunction: it takes the join of
the types of the two sub-terms so as to ensure that a violation can
occur in the worst way possible.
The typing rules for historical-predicate declarations are char-
acterized by the judgment Γ; Θ ⊢𝑑∗: Θ′, where Θ is the violation-
type environment accumulated so far and Θ′ is the environment
produced after processing 𝑑∗. Rule DEmpty returns Θ unchanged
when the declaration sequence is empty. Rule DLet1 derives the
type 𝜏of 𝑃under Γ, extends Θ with the binding 𝐻↦→𝜏, and pro-
cesses the remaining definitions 𝑑∗in the extended environment,
producing Θ′. Rule DLet2 follows the same approach for condi-
tional declarations: it requires 𝐻′ ∈dom(Θ) to ensure that 𝐻′ has
already been declared and to guarantee acyclicity. It extends Θ with
𝐻↦→𝜏⊔Θ(𝐻′), where the join reflects that the violation type of
𝐻depends on both the predicate 𝑃and the historical condition
𝐻′. Both rules DLet1 and DLet2 require 𝐻∉dom(Θ) to prevent
redefinition of identifiers. Note that both judgments only assign
types in {𝐶,𝑂}: the type of an event predicate is either taken from
Γ, whose codomain is {𝐶,𝑂}, or obtained by joining such types,
and Θ is built from event-predicate types in the same way. The type
𝑇is therefore introduced only by rule Response.
Before proving type soundness, we prove an auxiliary result:
Lemma B.3. Let 𝑒be an event; if Γ ⊢𝑃: 𝜏and J𝑃K𝑎(𝑒, ∅) ≠na,
then Γ(𝑒.type) ⊑𝜏.
Proof. By induction on the derivation Γ ⊢𝑃: 𝜏and then by
cases on the last rule applied.
Case PEvent: We have that 𝑃= (𝐸,𝑔) and 𝜏= Γ(𝐸). By the se-
mantics we have J(𝐸,𝑔)K𝑎(𝑒, ∅) ≠na implies 𝑒.type = 𝐸. Therefore
Γ(𝐸) = Γ(𝑒.type) = 𝜏.
Case PNeg: We have that 𝑃= ¬𝑃′, Γ ⊢𝑃′ : 𝜏. By the semantics
of negation, J¬𝑃K𝑎(𝑒, ∅) ≠na implies J𝑃′K𝑎(𝑒, ∅) ≠na. By the
induction hypothesis applied to 𝑃′, Γ(𝑒.type) ⊑𝜏.
Case PAnd: We have that 𝑃= 𝑃1 ∧𝑃2, 𝜏= 𝜏1 ⊔𝜏2, Γ ⊢𝑃1 : 𝜏1, and
Γ ⊢𝑃2 : 𝜏2. By hypothesis, J𝑃1 ∧𝑃2K𝑎(𝑒, ∅) ≠na, and we proceed
by cases on J𝑃1K𝑎(𝑒, ∅). If J𝑃1K𝑎(𝑒, ∅) ≠na, we can apply the induc-
tion hypothesis to 𝑃1, obtaining Γ(𝑒.type) ⊑𝜏1 ⊑𝜏. Otherwise, if
J𝑃1K𝑎(𝑒, ∅) = na, by the semantics of conjunction, the hypothesis
J𝑃1 ∧𝑃2K𝑎(𝑒, ∅) ≠na implies J𝑃2K𝑎(𝑒, ∅) = false ≠na. By the in-
duction hypothesis applied to 𝑃2, Γ(𝑒.type) ⊑𝜏2 ⊑𝜏. In all cases
Γ(𝑒.type) ⊑𝜏.
Case POr: We have that 𝑃= 𝑃1 ∨𝑃2, 𝜏= 𝜏1 ⊔𝜏2, Γ ⊢𝑃1 : 𝜏1,
and Γ ⊢𝑃2 : 𝜏2. By hypothesis, J𝑃1 ∨𝑃2K𝑎(𝑒, ∅) ≠na, and we
proceed by cases on J𝑃1K𝑎(𝑒, ∅). If J𝑃1K𝑎(𝑒, ∅) = true ≠na, by
the induction hypothesis applied to 𝑃1, we have Γ(𝑒.type) ⊑𝜏1 ⊑
𝜏. Otherwise, if J𝑃1K𝑎(𝑒, ∅) = false or J𝑃1K𝑎(𝑒, ∅) = na, by the
semantics of disjunction, the hypothesis J𝑃1 ∨𝑃2K𝑎(𝑒, ∅) ≠na
implies J𝑃2K𝑎(𝑒, ∅) ≠na. By the induction hypothesis applied to 𝑃2,
Γ(𝑒.type) ⊑𝜏2 ⊑𝜏. In all cases Γ(𝑒.type) ⊑𝜏.
□
Finally, we prove Theorem 5.8:
Theorem 5.8 (Type Soundness). Let Γ be a type environment,
Π = ⟨𝑑∗𝑝,𝐴⟩be a DSL program such that Γ; ∅⊢𝑑∗: Θ and Γ; Θ ⊢
𝑝: 𝜏. For each finite trace 𝜎𝑘such that JΠK(𝜎𝑘) = violated, let 𝜎𝑖∗be
the first violating prefix of 𝜎𝑘. Then:
• if 𝜏∈{𝐶,𝑂}, the violation is triggered by an offending event
𝑒𝑖∗such that Γ(𝑒𝑖∗.type) ⊑𝜏;
• if 𝜏= 𝑇, either the violation is triggered by an offending event
𝑒𝑖∗such that Γ(𝑒𝑖∗.type) ⊑𝑂, or it is due to a deadline expi-
ration: there exists a bounded-response sub-formula 𝑃1𝐹≤Δ𝑃2
of J𝑝K𝐷
DSL and an instance (𝑖, 𝜌𝑖,𝑑𝑖) ∈I(𝜎𝑖∗, ∅) of its active
instance set such that 𝑒𝑖∗.𝑡> 𝑑𝑖and ¬ sat(𝑖, 𝜌𝑖,𝑑𝑖, 𝜎𝑖∗).
Proof. Let 𝜙= J𝑝K𝐷
DSL be the formula denoted by 𝑝, where 𝐷
is the definition environment obtained from 𝑑∗. Let 𝜎𝑖∗be the first
violating prefix of 𝜎𝑘. We proceed by induction on the derivation
Γ; Θ ⊢𝑝: 𝜏and by cases on the last rule applied.
Case Forbid: We know that 𝑝= forbid 𝑃, 𝜙= 𝐺(¬𝑃), 𝜏= 𝜏𝑃, and
Γ ⊢𝑃: 𝜏𝑃. Since 𝑃is an event predicate, 𝜏𝑃∈{𝐶,𝑂} by the predi-
cate typing rules, hence 𝜏∈{𝐶,𝑂}. By the semantics, JΠK(𝜎𝑖∗) =
violated implies 𝜋1(J¬𝑃K(𝜎𝑖∗, ∅)) = violated, that in turn implies
J𝑃K𝑎(𝑒𝑖∗, ∅) = false. Since J𝑃K𝑎(𝑒𝑖∗, ∅) ≠na, by Lemma B.3 and
since 𝜏𝑃∈{𝐶,𝑂}, Γ(𝑒𝑖∗.type) ⊑𝜏𝑃= 𝜏.
Case ForbidWhen: 𝑝= forbid 𝑃when 𝐻, 𝜙= 𝐺(¬(𝐷(𝐻) ∧𝑃))
where 𝐷(𝐻) = <𝜙𝐻for some 𝜙𝐻, 𝜏= Θ(𝐻) ⊔𝜏𝑃, Γ ⊢𝑃: 𝜏𝑃
and Θ(𝐻) = 𝜏𝐻. By the semantics, JΠK(𝜎𝑖∗) = violated implies
𝜋1(J¬(𝐷(𝐻) ∧𝑃)K(𝜎𝑖∗, ∅)) = violated. By the semantics of nega-
tion, this implies 𝜋1(J𝐷(𝐻) ∧𝑃K(𝜎𝑖∗, ∅)) = ok, that in turn implies


Enforcement of In-Kernel Stateful Security Policies via eBPF
𝜋1(J𝐷(𝐻)K(𝜎𝑖∗, ∅)) = ok and 𝜋1(J𝑃K(𝜎𝑖∗, ∅)) = ok. The first condi-
tion means that 𝐷(𝐻) = <𝜙𝐻holds on 𝜎𝑖∗, meaning there exists
𝑗≤𝑖∗such that 𝜙𝐻was satisfied at some past position 𝑗. This
means that a relevant past event occurred, but it does not iden-
tify the offending event. The second condition J𝑃K𝑎(𝑒𝑖∗, ∅) = true
identifies the offending event because it is satisfied by the current
event 𝑒𝑖∗, which is the event that triggers the violation at the first
violating prefix. Since J𝑃K𝑎(𝑒𝑖∗, ∅) = true ≠na, by Lemma B.3 ap-
plied to 𝑃, Γ(𝑒𝑖∗.type) ⊑𝜏𝑃. Since 𝜏𝑃⊑𝜏𝐻⊔𝜏𝑃= 𝜏, we conclude
Γ(𝑒𝑖∗.type) ⊑𝜏; moreover 𝜏𝑃,𝜏𝐻∈{𝐶,𝑂}, hence 𝜏∈{𝐶,𝑂}.
Case Response: We know that 𝑝= when 𝑃1 then within Δ 𝑃2,
𝜙= 𝐺(𝑃1𝐹≤Δ𝑃2), and 𝜏= 𝑇. Since the resulting type is 𝜏= 𝑇, it suf-
fices to establish the second disjunct of the thesis, namely that the
violation is due to a deadline expiration. By the semantics, we have
that JΠK(𝜎𝑖∗) = violated implies 𝜋1(J𝑃1𝐹≤Δ𝑃2K(𝜎𝑖∗, ∅)) = violated.
By the semantics of the operator 𝐹≤Δ, this means there exists
(𝑖, 𝜌𝑖,𝑑𝑖) ∈I(𝜎𝑖∗, ∅) such that 𝑒𝑖∗.𝑡> 𝑑𝑖and ¬ sat(𝑖, 𝜌𝑖,𝑑𝑖, 𝜎𝑖∗),
which is exactly the thesis, with 𝑃1𝐹≤Δ𝑃2 itself as the witness sub-
formula.
Case Comp: We have that 𝑝= 𝑝1 ∧𝑝2, 𝜙= 𝜙1 ∧𝜙2, 𝜏= 𝜏1 ⊔𝜏2, Γ; Θ ⊢
𝑝1 : 𝜏1 and Γ; Θ ⊢𝑝2 : 𝜏2. By a straightforward auxiliary induction
on the syntax of𝑝we have bnd(J𝑝K𝐷
DSL) = ∅: the three base cases are
𝐺-formulas and bnd(𝐺𝜓) = ∅by definition, while bnd(𝜙1 ∧𝜙2) =
bnd(𝜙1) ∪bnd(𝜙2). Hence, both conjuncts are evaluated under the
empty environment. By the semantics of conjunction, JΠK(𝜎𝑖∗) =
violated implies 𝜋1(J𝜙1K(𝜎𝑖∗, ∅)) = violated or 𝜋1(J𝜙2K(𝜎𝑖∗, ∅)) =
violated. Consider the case where 𝜙1 is violated; the other one
is symmetric. Then 𝜎𝑖∗is also the first violating prefix of 𝑝1: if 𝜙1
were violated at some 𝑗< 𝑖∗, the same clause for conjunction would
give JΠK(𝜎𝑗) = violated, contradicting the minimality of 𝑖∗. The
induction hypothesis for 𝑝1 thus applies at 𝜎𝑖∗, and we distinguish
two cases on 𝜏1.
If 𝜏1 ⊑𝑂, the induction hypothesis is the first item of the thesis
for 𝑝1: there is an offending event 𝑒𝑖∗with Γ(𝑒𝑖∗.type) ⊑𝜏1, and the
same event is offending for 𝑝1 ∧𝑝2. If 𝜏⊑𝑂, we must prove the
first item, and Γ(𝑒𝑖∗.type) ⊑𝜏1 ⊑𝜏. If 𝜏= 𝑇, we must prove the
second item, and Γ(𝑒𝑖∗.type) ⊑𝜏1 ⊑𝑂gives its first possibility.
If instead𝜏1 = 𝑇, then𝜏= 𝑇⊔𝜏2 = 𝑇, so we must prove the second
item of the thesis. Since 𝜏1 = 𝑇, the induction hypothesis is the
second item of the thesis for 𝑝1. It gives us one of two possibilities.
Either there is an offending event 𝑒𝑖∗for 𝑝1 with Γ(𝑒𝑖∗.type) ⊑
𝑂, and the same event is offending for 𝑝1 ∧𝑝2. Or there exists a
bounded-response sub-formula 𝑃1𝐹≤Δ𝑃2 of J𝑝1K𝐷
DSL and an instance
(𝑖, 𝜌𝑖,𝑑𝑖) ∈I(𝜎𝑖∗, ∅) such that 𝑒𝑖∗.𝑡> 𝑑𝑖and ¬ sat(𝑖, 𝜌𝑖,𝑑𝑖, 𝜎𝑖∗).
Since J𝑝K𝐷
DSL = J𝑝1K𝐷
DSL ∧J𝑝2K𝐷
DSL, the same sub-formula is one of
J𝑝K𝐷
DSL, and the same instance witnesses the thesis.
□
B.2
Monitor Synthesis
B.2.1
Normal Form. Given a DSL program Π = ⟨𝑑∗𝑝,𝐴⟩and the
definition environment 𝐷obtained from 𝑑∗, we define our normal-
ization function NF as follows:
NF(⟨𝑑∗𝑝,𝐴⟩) = NF(𝑝)
NF(forbid 𝑃) = 𝐺(¬𝑃)
NF(forbid 𝑃when 𝐻) = 𝐺(¬(𝐷(𝐻) ∧𝑃))
NF(when 𝑃1 then within Δ 𝑃2) = 𝐺(𝑃1𝐹≤Δ𝑃2)
NF(𝑝1 ∧𝑝2) = 𝐺(𝜙′
1 ∧𝜙′
2)
where NF(𝑝1) = 𝐺(𝜙′
1), and NF(𝑝2) = 𝐺(𝜙′
2). Note that for every
𝑝, NF(𝑝) = 𝐺(𝜙′) for a unique formula 𝜙′. Hereafter, we denote by
<𝜙𝐻the past formula 𝐷(𝐻) associated with the historical predicate
𝐻in the definition environment 𝐷.
The following result ensures that our normalization process
preserves the semantics of a DSL program:
Theorem B.4 (Semantic preservation). For every program Π =
⟨𝑑∗𝑝,𝐴⟩, let 𝜙= J𝑝K𝐷(𝑑∗)
DSL
be the formula denoted by Π. Then for
every finite trace 𝜎𝑘:
𝜋1(J𝜙K(𝜎𝑘, ∅)) = 𝜋1(JNF(𝑝)K(𝜎𝑘, ∅)).
Proof. We proceed by structural induction on the syntax of 𝑝,
showing that 𝜋1(J𝜙K(𝜎𝑘, ∅)) = 𝜋1(JNF(𝑝)K(𝜎𝑘, ∅)) for every finite
trace 𝜎𝑘.
Case forbid 𝑃: By the definition of J·K𝐷
DSL we have 𝜙= 𝐺(¬𝑃);
since NF(𝑝) = 𝐺(¬𝑃), 𝜙coincides syntactically with the normal
form and the thesis holds trivially.
Case forbid 𝑃when 𝐻: By the definition of J·K𝐷
DSL we have 𝜙=
𝐺(¬(𝐷(𝐻) ∧𝑃)), which is exactly NF(𝑝); hence 𝜙coincides syn-
tactically with the normal form.
Case when 𝑃1 then within Δ 𝑃2: By the definition of J·K𝐷
DSL we
have 𝜙= 𝐺(𝑃1𝐹≤Δ𝑃2); since NF(𝑝) = 𝜙, 𝜙coincides syntactically
with the normal form and the thesis holds trivially.
Case 𝑝1 ∧𝑝2: By the definition of J·K𝐷
DSL we have 𝜙= 𝜙1 ∧𝜙2, where
𝜙𝑖= J𝑝𝑖K𝐷(𝑑∗)
DSL
for𝑖∈{1, 2}; by the definition of NF on conjunctions,
we have NF(𝑝) = 𝐺(𝜙′
1 ∧𝜙′
2) where 𝜙′
𝑖is such that NF(𝑝𝑖) = 𝐺(𝜙′
𝑖).
By the definition, J·K𝐷
DSL produces a 𝐺-formula or a conjunction of
𝐺-formulas, and by the definition of bnd on 𝐺-formulas we have
bnd(𝜙𝑖) = ∅, and bnd(𝐺(𝜙′
𝑖)) = ∅as well. By Proposition B.1, the
evaluation of 𝜙1 and of 𝐺(𝜙′
1) leaves the environment unchanged,
so in both J𝜙1 ∧𝜙2K(𝜎𝑘, ∅) and J𝐺(𝜙′
1) ∧𝐺(𝜙′
2)K(𝜎𝑘, ∅) the second
conjunct is evaluated under ∅as well. Hence, by the semantics of
conjunction, the value of each of the two formulas is determined
by the values of its conjuncts. By the induction hypothesis and the
definition of 𝜙′
𝑖, for 𝑖∈{1, 2}:
𝜋1(J𝜙𝑖K(𝜎𝑘, ∅)) = 𝜋1(JNF(𝑝𝑖)K(𝜎𝑘, ∅)) = 𝜋1(J𝐺(𝜙′
𝑖)K(𝜎𝑘, ∅)).
Hence:
𝜋1(J𝜙K(𝜎𝑘, ∅)) = 𝜋1(J𝐺(𝜙′
1) ∧𝐺(𝜙′
2)K(𝜎𝑘, ∅))
= 𝜋1(J𝐺(𝜙′
1 ∧𝜙′
2)K(𝜎𝑘, ∅))
= 𝜋1(JNF(𝑝)K(𝜎𝑘, ∅))
where the first step follows from the argument above, the second
from Proposition B.2, and the third from the definition of NF on con-
junctions. The hypothesis of Proposition B.2 holds: 𝜙′
1 is built from
bounded-response formulas and negations, and neither introduces
bindings, so bnd(𝜙′
1) = ∅.
□


Letterio Galletta
B.2.2
Safety Monitor. We formally define the evaluation function
EJ𝜓KH(𝑒) ∈𝐾3 inductively on the structure of the conjunct 𝜓that
can be either 𝑃or <𝜙𝐻∧𝑃:
EJ𝑃KH(𝑒) = 𝜋1(J𝑃K𝑎(𝑒, ∅))
EJ<𝜙𝐻∧𝑃KH(𝑒) =
(
false
H (<𝜙𝐻) = pending
𝜋1(J𝑃K𝑎(𝑒, ∅))
otherwise
Lemma B.5 (Safety evaluation soundness). Given a DSL pro-
gram Π, for every safety conjunct 𝜓𝑖in NF(Π), finite trace 𝜎𝑘with
𝑘≥1, and historical memory H such that for all <𝜙𝐻∈Φ<(Π):
H (<𝜙𝐻) = ok
=⇒
𝜋1(J<𝜙𝐻K(𝜎𝑘, ∅)) = ok,
we have:
EJ𝜓𝑖KH(𝑒𝑘) = true
=⇒
𝜋1(J𝜓𝑖K(𝜎𝑘, ∅)) = ok.
Proof. By cases on the structure of 𝜓𝑖.
Case 𝜓𝑖= 𝑃: by definition of EJ·K·(·), EJ𝑃KH(𝑒𝑘) = J𝑃K𝑎(𝑒𝑘, ∅) =
true. By the semantics of predicates as formulas, J𝑃K𝑎(𝑒𝑘, ∅) = true
implies 𝜋1(J𝑃K(𝜎𝑘, ∅)) = ok.
Case𝜓𝑖= <𝜙𝐻∧𝑃: By definition, EJ<𝜙𝐻∧𝑃KH(𝑒𝑘) = true requires
H (<𝜙𝐻) = ok and J𝑃K𝑎(𝑒𝑘, ∅) = true. By the hypothesis on H,
H (<𝜙𝐻) = ok implies 𝜋1(J<𝜙𝐻K(𝜎𝑘, ∅)) = ok. By the semantics of
predicates as formulas, J𝑃K𝑎(𝑒𝑘, ∅) = true implies 𝜋1(J𝑃K(𝜎𝑘, ∅)) =
ok. By the semantics of conjunction, we conclude:
𝜋1(J<𝜙𝐻∧𝑃K(𝜎𝑘, ∅)) = ok.
□
Lemma B.6 (Safety evaluation completeness). Given a DSL
program Π, for every safety conjunct𝜓𝑖in NF(Π), finite trace 𝜎𝑘with
𝑘≥1, and historical memory H such that for all <𝜙𝐻∈Φ<(Π):
𝜋1(J<𝜙𝐻K(𝜎𝑘, ∅)) = ok
=⇒
H (<𝜙𝐻) = ok,
if 𝜋1(J𝜓𝑖K(𝜎𝑘, ∅)) = ok and J𝑃K𝑎(𝑒𝑘, ∅) ≠na, where 𝑃is the event
predicate occurring in 𝜓𝑖, then:
EJ𝜓𝑖KH(𝑒𝑘) = true.
Proof. By cases on the structure of 𝜓𝑖.
Case𝜓𝑖= 𝑃: By the semantics of predicates as formulas, 𝜋1(J𝑃K(𝜎𝑘, ∅)) =
ok means J𝑃K𝑎(𝑒𝑘, ∅) = true, hence by definition of EJ·K·(·):
EJ𝑃KH(𝑒𝑘) = true.
Case𝜓𝑖= <𝜙𝐻∧𝑃: 𝜋1(J<𝜙𝐻∧𝑃K(𝜎𝑘, ∅)) = ok implies by the seman-
tics of conjunction both 𝜋1(J<𝜙𝐻K(𝜎𝑘, ∅)) = ok and 𝜋1(J𝑃K(𝜎𝑘, ∅)) =
ok. By the hypothesis on H, 𝜋1(J<𝜙𝐻K(𝜎𝑘, ∅)) = ok implies H (<𝜙𝐻) =
ok. By the same argument as the case 𝜓𝑖= 𝑃, 𝜋1(J𝑃K(𝜎𝑘, ∅)) = ok
implies J𝑃K𝑎(𝑒𝑘, ∅) = true.
Therefore by definition of EJ·K·(·):
EJ<𝜙𝐻∧𝑃KH(𝑒𝑘) = true.
□
B.2.3
Bounded-response Monitor. We define the memory update
function 𝑈used in the bounded-response monitor automaton. Con-
sider a formula 𝑃𝑗
1𝐹≤Δ𝑗𝑃𝑗
2. Given an active instance set 𝐼𝑗, a violation
flag 𝑓𝑗, and an event 𝑒, we define:
vi(𝐼𝑗,𝑒) ⇐⇒∃(𝑑, 𝜌′) ∈𝐼𝑗. 𝑒.𝑡> 𝑑
rm(𝐼𝑗,𝑒) = 𝐼𝑗\ {(𝑑, 𝜌′) | 𝑒.𝑡> 𝑑∨(𝑒.𝑡≤𝑑∧J𝑃𝑗
2K𝑎(𝑒, 𝜌′) = true)}
new(𝑒) =
(
{(𝑒.𝑡+ Δ𝑗, 𝜌′)}
if J𝑃𝑗
1K𝑎(𝑒, ∅) = (true, 𝜌′)
∅
otherwise
where the predicate vi(𝐼𝑗,𝑒) detects whether any active instance
has expired. The function rm(𝐼𝑗,𝑒) removes all instances that are
either expired or satisfied by 𝑒. The function new(𝑒) produces a
new instance if 𝑃𝑗
1 is triggered by 𝑒. The order of application is
fixed: vi is evaluated on the current 𝐼𝑗before rm and new update it.
The memory update function is defined as𝑈((𝐼𝑗, 𝑓𝑗),𝑒) = (𝐼′
𝑗, 𝑓′
𝑗)
where:
𝐼′
𝑗= rm(𝐼𝑗,𝑒)∪new(𝑒),
𝑓′
𝑗=
(
violated
if 𝑓𝑗= violated ∨vi(𝐼𝑗,𝑒)
ok
otherwise.
B.2.4
Global Monitor. Consider a DSL program Π and its normal
form formula NF(Π) that has safety and bounded response con-
juncts indexed by the sets 𝐼and 𝐽, respectively. Recall that the states
of the monitor A = GenMon(NF(Π)) are (|𝐼| + |𝐽|) tuples, whose
elements track the corresponding state of each local automaton.
Given a state 𝑞of A, we denote by 𝑞𝑘the 𝑘-th element of 𝑞. Recall
that we denote by <𝜙𝐻the past formula 𝐷(𝐻) associated with the
historical predicate 𝐻in the definition environment 𝐷built from
the declarations 𝑑∗of Π.
Before presenting the rule for the global monitor we formalize
the operation to update the historical memory. More precisely, we
define UpdH by recursion on the declaration sequence 𝑑∗occurring
inside a DSL program Π:
UpdH(H,𝑒,𝜖) = H
UpdH(H,𝑒,𝑑∗· let 𝐻:= happened(𝑃)) =
(
H ′[<𝑃↦→ok]
if J𝑃K𝑎(𝑒, ∅) = true
H ′
otherwise
UpdH(H,𝑒,𝑑∗· let 𝐻:= happened(𝑃) when 𝐻′) =


H ′[<(𝐷(𝐻′) ∧𝑃) ↦→ok]
if H ′(<𝜙𝐻′) = ok ∧
J𝑃K𝑎(𝑒, ∅) = true
H ′
otherwise
where H ′ = UpdH(H,𝑒,𝑑∗) is the memory already updated for
all preceding declarations, according to the order in which the
declarations occur in 𝑑∗. Since we know that declarations 𝑑∗are
acyclic by the type system, the updates follow a topological order.
Rule Par below captures the behavior of the global monitor:
Par
H ′ = UpdH(H,𝑒,𝑑∗)
∀𝑖∈𝐼. (𝑞𝑖, (H ′, J))
𝑒−→
𝑠
𝑖(𝑞′
𝑖, (H ′, J))
∀𝑗∈𝐽. (𝑞𝑗, (H ′, J))
𝑒−→
𝑟
𝑗(𝑞′
𝑗, (H ′, J𝑗))
J ′ = J

𝑗↦→J𝑗(𝑗) | 𝑗∈𝐽

(𝑞, (H, J))
𝑒−→(𝑞′, (H ′, J ′))
The first premise of Par updates the historical memory H to H ′
by setting to ok every entry <𝜙𝐻whose formula 𝜙𝐻evaluates to
true on the current event 𝑒, leaving all other entries unchanged. We
update the memory following the declaration list 𝑑∗of the program
Π. This update is monotone: entries already set to ok are never reset.


Enforcement of In-Kernel Stateful Security Policies via eBPF
The second and the third premises fire the corresponding transition
on the local automaton associated with the conjunct of the formula.
The last premise changes the clause state of each bounded response
𝑗to update the second component of the monitor memory. Since
the updates of each bounded-response automaton are independent,
we can simply merge the various updates to obtain J ′.
Proposition B.7 (Determinism). For every DSL program Π and
finite trace 𝜎𝑘, there exists a unique run
(𝑞0,𝑚0)
𝜎𝑘
−−→(𝑞,𝑚).
Proof. It suffices to show that for every configuration (𝑞,𝑚)
and event 𝑒, there exists a unique configuration (𝑞′,𝑚′) such that
(𝑞,𝑚)
𝑒−→(𝑞′,𝑚′). The result then follows by induction on 𝑘, with
the base case given by the unique initial configuration (𝑞0,𝑚0).
We reason on how a transition is performed by rule Par: we
show that every step in the premise of rule Par produces a unique
output given a configuration (𝑞,𝑚) and an event 𝑒.
First, given 𝑒and 𝑚= (H, J) the next historical memory is
obtained as H ′ = UpdH(H,𝑒,𝑑∗). By definition UpdH is a function
defined by structural recursion on 𝑑∗, so H ′ is uniquely determined.
Consider now the transition of safety automata. Recall that 𝑞is a
tuple where each element records the state 𝑞𝑖of a local automaton.
For each 𝑖∈𝐼, the new control state 𝑞′
𝑖is uniquely determined by 𝑞𝑖
and by the evaluation of EJ𝜓𝑖KH′ (𝑒). There are two cases according
to the state 𝑞𝑖. If 𝑞𝑖= violated: only rule S-Absorb applies, giving
𝑞′
𝑖= violated. Otherwise, if𝑞𝑖= ok, then exactly one of rules S-Viol
or S-Ok applies, depending on whether EJ𝜓𝑖KH′ (𝑒) = true or not.
These two rules are mutually exclusive and exhaustive.
Consider now the transition of the bounded-response automata.
For each 𝑗∈𝐽, the function𝑈((𝐼𝑗, 𝑓𝑗),𝑒) is defined as a composition
of vi, rm, and new, each of which is a function of its inputs. Hence
𝑈produces a unique output (𝐼′
𝑗, 𝑓′
𝑗). The new control state 𝑞′
𝑗is
then uniquely determined as follows. If 𝑞𝑗= violated, then only
rule R-Absorb applies, giving 𝑞′
𝑗= violated. Otherwise, if 𝑞𝑗=
ok, then exactly one of rules R-Viol or R-Ok applies, depending
on whether 𝑓′
𝑗= violated or 𝑓′
𝑗= ok. These two conditions are
mutually exclusive and exhaustive.
Finally, observe that the component 𝐽in 𝑚is updated according
to J ′ = J [𝑗↦→(𝐼′
𝑗, 𝑓′
𝑗) | 𝑗∈𝐽], which produces a unique output.
Therefore, every step by rule Par is deterministic and produces
a unique configuration (𝑞′,𝑚′) from (𝑞,𝑚) and 𝑒.
□
We now provide a bound on the size of the monitor: we show
that the size of the monitor is linear in the size of the formula and
in the number of historical-predicate declarations. Note that in a
real eBPF deployment we can only admit a finite and bounded num-
ber of active instances for each bounded response clause, denoted
MAX_INST. Let Π = ⟨𝑑∗𝑝,𝐴⟩be a DSL program with normal form
NF(Π) = 𝐺
Û
𝑖∈𝐼
¬𝜓𝑖∧
Û
𝑗∈𝐽
 𝑃𝑗
1 𝐹≤Δ𝑗𝑃𝑗
2

.
We use the following parameters throughout:
• |𝐼|: number of safety conjuncts;
• |𝐽|: number of bounded-response conjuncts;
• 𝑛= |𝑑∗|: number of historical-predicate declarations in Π;
• 𝑣𝑗= |vars(𝑃𝑗
1)|: number of correlation variables bound by
𝑃𝑗
1, for each 𝑗∈𝐽;
• 𝑤: machine word size in bits;
• MAX_INST ∈N: the maximum number of active instances
per bounded-response clause, a fixed deployment parame-
ter.
Proposition B.8 (Monitor size). Let Π be a DSL program and
A = GenMon(NF(Π)) be its corresponding monitor. Then A re-
quires:
• |𝐼| + |𝐽| bits for the control state;
• 𝑛bits for the historical memory;
• |𝐽| bits for the violation flags;
• at most MAX_INST · (64 +𝑣𝑗·𝑤) bits for the active instance
set of each clause 𝑗∈𝐽.
Its total size is:
|𝐼| + 2|𝐽| + 𝑛+ MAX_INST ·
∑︁
𝑗∈𝐽
(64 + 𝑣𝑗· 𝑤)
bits.
Proof. We account for each component of the monitor state.
Control state. Each local automaton 𝐴𝑠
𝑖and 𝐴𝑟
𝑗uses a single bit
to represent its current state 𝑞𝑖,𝑞𝑗∈{ok, violated}, for a total of
|𝐼| + |𝐽| bits.
Historical memory. A historical memory H maps each of the 𝑛past
formulas to a single bit, requiring 𝑛bits in total.
Violation flags. Each bounded-response clause 𝑗∈𝐽maintains a
violation flag 𝑓𝑗∈{ok, violated}, one bit per clause, |𝐽| bits in total.
Active instance sets. Each clause 𝑗∈𝐽maintains at most MAX_INST
active instances in a real deployment. Each instance (𝑑, 𝜌′) consists
of:
• a deadline 𝑑∈N, stored as a 64-bit nanosecond timestamp;
• a correlation environment 𝜌′ containing 𝑣𝑗values, each
stored as a 𝑤-bit machine word, for a total of 𝑣𝑗· 𝑤bits.
Each instance therefore requires 64 + 𝑣𝑗· 𝑤bits, and the active
instance set of clause 𝑗requires at most MAX_INST · (64 + 𝑣𝑗· 𝑤)
bits.
Total. Summing all components:
|𝐼| + |𝐽|
|  {z  }
control
+
𝑛
|{z}
history
+
|𝐽|
|{z}
flags
+ MAX_INST ·
∑︁
𝑗∈𝐽
(64 + 𝑣𝑗· 𝑤)
|                                 {z                                 }
instances
bits.
The first three terms give |𝐼| + 2|𝐽| + 𝑛bits, which is 𝑂(|𝐼| + |𝐽| +
𝑛) in the size of NF(Π) and 𝑑∗. The instance storage is linear in
MAX_INST · |𝐽| · (64 + 𝑣max · 𝑤) where 𝑣max = max𝑗∈𝐽𝑣𝑗, which
is 𝑂(MAX_INST · |𝐽|) for a fixed policy with bounded correlation
variables.
□
B.2.5
Proof of Correctness. We first introduce some notation and
two auxiliary results. Given a DSL program Π, the corresponding
monitor A = GenMon(NF(Π)), and a finite trace 𝜎𝑘, we write
(𝑞0,𝑚0)
𝜎𝑘
−−→(𝑞,𝑚) to denote the run induced by the trace 𝜎𝑘, i.e.,
a sequence of 𝑘transitions from the initial configuration (𝑞0,𝑚0)
that consumes all events in 𝜎𝑘and reaches (𝑞,𝑚).
To prove soundness we need the following auxiliary lemmas:


Letterio Galletta
Lemma B.9 (UpdH soundness). For every event 𝑒, historical mem-
ory H, and declaration sequence 𝑑∗of a DSL program Π, if
∀<𝜙𝐻∈Φ<(Π). H (<𝜙𝐻) = ok
=⇒
𝜋1(J<𝜙𝐻K(𝜎, ∅)) = ok
for some finite trace 𝜎, then:
UpdH(H,𝑒,𝑑∗)(<𝜙𝐻) = ok
=⇒
𝜋1(J<𝜙𝐻K(𝜎′, ∅)) = ok
for any <𝜙𝐻∈Φ<(Π) and finite trace 𝜎′ that extends 𝜎with 𝑒as its
last event.
Proof. By induction on 𝑑∗.
Base case (𝑑∗= 𝜖): By definition we have UpdH(H,𝑒,𝜖) = H, so
the lemma directly follows from the hypothesis.
Inductive step: let 𝑑∗= 𝑑∗
0 · 𝑑where 𝑑is the last declaration. Let
H0 = UpdH(H,𝑒,𝑑∗
0). By the inductive hypothesis applied to 𝑑∗
0,
we have:
∀<𝜙𝐻∈Φ<(Π). H0(<𝜙𝐻) = ok
=⇒
𝜋1(J<𝜙𝐻K(𝜎′, ∅)) = ok.
We proceed by cases on the last declaration 𝑑.
Case 𝑑= let 𝐻:= happened(𝑃): by definition of UpdH:
UpdH(H,𝑒,𝑑∗) =
(
H0[<𝑃↦→ok]
if J𝑃K𝑎(𝑒, ∅) = true
H0
otherwise.
Suppose UpdH(H,𝑒,𝑑∗)(<𝜙𝐻) = ok for some <𝜙𝐻. For <𝜙𝐻≠
<𝑃the value is unchanged from H0 (H0(<𝜙𝐻) = ok), so by in-
duction hypothesis, 𝜋1(J<𝜙𝐻K(𝜎′, ∅)) = ok. For <𝜙𝐻= <𝑃we
have two cases. If H0(<𝜙𝐻) = ok, then by induction hypothe-
sis, 𝜋1(J<𝜙𝐻K(𝜎′, ∅)) = ok. Otherwise, H0(<𝜙𝐻) = pending and
J𝑃K𝑎(𝑒, ∅) = true. By the semantics of predicates as formulas,
𝜋1(J𝑃K(𝜎′, ∅)) = ok. Then, by the semantics of < we have:
𝜋1(J<𝑃K(𝜎′, ∅)) = ok.
Case 𝑑= let 𝐻:= happened(𝑃) when 𝐻′: by definition of UpdH:
UpdH(H,𝑒,𝑑∗) =


H0[<(<𝜙𝐻′ ∧𝑃) ↦→ok]
if H0(<𝜙𝐻′) = ok ∧
J𝑃K𝑎(𝑒, ∅) = true
H0
otherwise.
Suppose UpdH(H,𝑒,𝑑∗)(<𝜙𝐻) = ok. For <𝜙𝐻≠<(<𝜙𝐻′ ∧𝑃),
the value is unchanged from H0, so the conclusion follows from
induction hypothesis. For <𝜙𝐻= <(<𝜙𝐻′ ∧𝑃), we have two cases.
If its value was already ok, H0(<(<𝜙𝐻′ ∧𝑃)) = ok, the thesis fol-
lows by induction hypothesis, 𝜋1(J<(<𝜙𝐻′ ∧𝑃)K(𝜎′, ∅)) = ok. If
its value was not already set, i.e., H0(<(<𝜙𝐻′ ∧𝑃)) = pending and
H0(<𝜙𝐻′) = ok and J𝑃K𝑎(𝑒, ∅) = true, we have that by induction
hypothesis applied to <𝜙𝐻′, H0(<𝜙𝐻′) = ok implies 𝜋1(J<𝜙𝐻′K(𝜎′, ∅)) =
ok. By the semantics of predicates as formulas, J𝑃K𝑎(𝑒, ∅) = true
implies 𝜋1(J𝑃K(𝜎′, ∅)) = ok. By the semantics of conjunction:
𝜋1(J<𝜙𝐻′ ∧𝑃K(𝜎′, ∅)) = ok.
and by the semantics of <, we have:
𝜋1(J<(<𝜙𝐻′ ∧𝑃)K(𝜎′, ∅)) = ok.
□
Lemma B.10 (Historical memory soundness). Let Π be a DSL
program, and let (𝑞0,𝑚0)
𝜎𝑘
−−→(𝑞,𝑚) be the run of the monitor A =
GenMon(NF(Π)) on 𝜎𝑘. For every <𝜙𝐻∈Φ<(Π):
𝑚H(<𝜙𝐻) = ok
=⇒
𝜋1(J<𝜙𝐻K(𝜎𝑘, ∅)) = ok.
Proof. By induction on the length of the trace 𝜎𝑘.
Base case (𝑘= 0): the historical memory H of the initial memory𝑚0
is such that H (<𝜙𝐻) = pending ≠ok by definition, so the lemma
is vacuously satisfied.
Inductive step: assume the lemma holds for a trace 𝜎𝑘−1, namely for
the run (𝑞0,𝑚0)
𝜎𝑘−1
−−−−→(𝑞′′,𝑚′′), we have that for all <𝜙𝐻∈Φ<(Π):
𝑚′′
H(<𝜙𝐻) = ok
=⇒
𝜋1(J<𝜙𝐻K(𝜎𝑘−1, ∅)) = ok.
Consider an extension of 𝜎𝑘−1 with a new event 𝑒𝑘, and consider the
last transition of the run (𝑞0,𝑚0)
𝜎𝑘
−−→(𝑞,𝑚). By the premise of rule
Par, 𝑚H = UpdH(𝑚′′
H,𝑒𝑘,𝑑∗). The inductive hypothesis is exactly
the premise of Lemma B.9 instantiated with 𝑚′′
H and 𝜎= 𝜎𝑘−1. By
applying Lemma B.9, taking 𝜎′ = 𝜎𝑘−1 · 𝑒𝑘= 𝜎𝑘, we conclude: for
all <𝜙𝐻∈Φ<(Π):
UpdH(𝑚′′
H,𝑒𝑘,𝑑∗)(<𝜙𝐻) = ok
=⇒
𝜋1(J<𝜙𝐻K(𝜎𝑘, ∅)) = ok,
which is exactly:
𝑚H(<𝜙𝐻) = ok
=⇒
𝜋1(J<𝜙𝐻K(𝜎𝑘, ∅)) = ok.
□
Theorem 6.2 (Soundness). For every DSL program Π and finite
trace 𝜎𝑘, if A = GenMon(NF(Π)) reaches a bad configuration after
reading 𝜎𝑘, then JΠK(𝜎𝑘) = violated.
Proof. By induction on the length 𝑘of the trace 𝜎𝑘.
Base case (𝑘= 0): the initial configuration (𝑞0,𝑚0) is not bad by
definition, so the hypothesis is vacuously satisfied.
Inductive step: assume the theorem holds for a trace 𝜎𝑘−1, i.e., if
the monitor A reaches a bad configuration after reading 𝜎𝑘−1 then
JΠK(𝜎𝑘−1) = violated. We show it holds for 𝜎𝑘.
Suppose A reaches a bad configuration after reading 𝜎𝑘. There
are two cases:
Case 1: A was already in a bad configuration after reading 𝜎𝑘−1.
By the inductive hypothesis, JΠK(𝜎𝑘−1) = violated, and by Theo-
rem 5.5, JΠK(𝜎𝑘) = violated.
Case 2: A was not in a bad configuration after reading 𝜎𝑘−1, but
entered a bad configuration at step 𝑘. Then at least one local au-
tomaton transitioned to violated at step 𝑘via a non-absorbing rule.
We proceed by cases on which automaton.
Safety case. Some 𝐴𝑠
𝑖transitioned to violated via S-Viol, which
requires:
EJ𝜓𝑖K𝑚H (𝑒𝑘) = true
where 𝑚H is the historical memory after the update at step 𝑘in
the premise of rule Par. By Lemma B.10 applied to the run on
𝜎𝑘, 𝑚H(<𝜙𝐻) = ok implies 𝜋1(J<𝜙𝐻K(𝜎𝑘, ∅)) = ok for all <𝜙𝐻∈
Φ<(Π). By applying Lemma B.5 with 𝑚H, we have:
𝜋1(J𝜓𝑖K(𝜎𝑘, ∅)) = ok,
hence 𝜋1(J¬𝜓𝑖K(𝜎𝑘, ∅)) = violated by the semantics of ¬. Thus,
since NF(Π) is a conjunction under the operator𝐺, by the semantics
of ∧and 𝐺we have:
𝜋1(JNF(Π)K(𝜎𝑘, ∅)) = violated.


Enforcement of In-Kernel Stateful Security Policies via eBPF
Bounded-response case. Some 𝐴𝑟
𝑗transitioned to violated via R-Viol,
which requires the update function to return the flag violated.
Since 𝐴𝑟
𝑗was not in a bad configuration after 𝜎𝑘−1, its flag was
ok. A bounded-response automaton is in the violated state exactly
when its flag is, hence, by the definition of 𝑈vi(𝐼𝑗,𝑒𝑘) holds, and
there exists (𝑑, 𝜌′) ∈𝐼𝑗with 𝑒𝑘.𝑡> 𝑑. The instance (𝑑, 𝜌′) was
inserted by new at some step 𝑖< 𝑘, where J𝑃𝑗
1K𝑎(𝑒𝑖, ∅) = (true, 𝜌′)
and 𝑑= 𝑒𝑖.𝑡+ Δ𝑗. By the semantics of predicates as formulas,
𝜋1(J𝑃𝑗
1K(𝜎𝑖, ∅)) = ok, which means (𝑖, 𝜌′,𝑑) ∈I(𝜎𝑘, ∅). Since
(𝑑, 𝜌′) is still in 𝐼𝑗at step 𝑘, because vi is evaluated before rm up-
dates the set, the instance was never removed at any step ℓ∈(𝑖,𝑘).
By the definition of rm, there is then no ℓ∈(𝑖,𝑘) with 𝑒ℓ.𝑡≤𝑑
and J𝑃𝑗
2K𝑎(𝑒ℓ, 𝜌′) = true; since 𝑒𝑘.𝑡> 𝑑, no such step exists in (𝑖,𝑘]
either, that is, ¬sat(𝑖, 𝜌′,𝑑, 𝜎𝑘). By the semantics of the operator
𝐹≤Δ:
𝜋1(J𝑃𝑗
1 𝐹≤Δ𝑗𝑃𝑗
2K(𝜎𝑘, ∅)) = violated.
Thus, since NF(Π) is a conjunction under the operator 𝐺, by the
semantics of ∧and 𝐺we have:
𝜋1(JNF(Π)K(𝜎𝑘, ∅)) = violated.
Thus, independently of how the local monitor enters the bad state,
by Theorem B.4:
JΠK(𝜎𝑘) = 𝜋1(JNF(Π)K(𝜎𝑘, ∅)) = violated.
□
To prove completeness, we need the following auxiliary lemmas:
Lemma B.11 (UpdH completeness). For every event 𝑒, historical
memory H, declaration sequence 𝑑∗of a DSL program Π, and finite
trace 𝜎𝑘, if
∀<𝜙𝐻∈Φ<(Π). 𝜋1(J<𝜙𝐻K(𝜎𝑘, ∅)) = ok
=⇒
H (<𝜙𝐻) = ok,
then:
𝜋1(J<𝜙𝐻K(𝜎′, ∅)) = ok
=⇒
UpdH(H,𝑒,𝑑∗)(<𝜙𝐻) = ok,
for any <𝜙𝐻∈Φ<(Π) and 𝜎′ = 𝜎𝑘· 𝑒.
Proof. We assume 𝜋1(J<𝜙𝐻K(𝜎′, ∅)) = ok and proceed by in-
duction on 𝑑∗.
Base case (𝑑∗= 𝜖): UpdH(H,𝑒,𝜖) = H, so the lemma directly holds.
Inductive step: Let 𝑑∗= 𝑑∗
0 · 𝑑where 𝑑is the last declaration, and
let H0 = UpdH(H,𝑒,𝑑∗
0). By the inductive hypothesis applied to
𝑑∗
0, we have:
∀<𝜙𝐻∈Φ<(Π). 𝜋1(J<𝜙𝐻K(𝜎′, ∅)) = ok
=⇒
H0(<𝜙𝐻) = ok.
We proceed by cases on 𝑑.
Case 𝑑= let 𝐻:= happened(𝑃): by definition of UpdH:
UpdH(H,𝑒,𝑑∗) =
(
H0[<𝑃↦→ok]
if J𝑃K𝑎(𝑒, ∅) = true
H0
otherwise.
Our hypothesis is 𝜋1(J<𝜙𝐻K(𝜎′, ∅)) = ok and 𝜎′ = 𝜎𝑘· 𝑒. For
<𝜙𝐻≠<𝑃, the conclusion follows from the induction hypothe-
sis. For <𝜙𝐻= <𝑃, by the semantics of <, ∃𝑖≤𝑘+ 1 such that
𝜋1(J𝑃K(𝜎𝑖, ∅)) = ok. We have two cases. If 𝑖≤𝑘, by the semantics
of < applied to 𝜎𝑘, 𝜋1(J<𝑃K(𝜎𝑘, ∅)) = ok. By the hypothesis of
the lemma, H (<𝑃) = ok. By induction hypothesis, H0(<𝑃) = ok,
hence UpdH(H,𝑒,𝑑∗)(<𝑃) = ok. Otherwise if 𝑖= 𝑘+ 1, then
𝜋1(J𝑃K(𝜎′, ∅)) = ok, hence J𝑃K𝑎(𝑒, ∅) = true, and by definition of
UpdH we have UpdH(H,𝑒,𝑑∗)(<𝑃) = ok.
Case 𝑑= let 𝐻:= happened(𝑃) when 𝐻′: by definition of UpdH:
UpdH(H,𝑒,𝑑∗) =


H0[<(<𝜙𝐻′ ∧𝑃) ↦→ok]
if H0(<𝜙𝐻′) = ok ∧
J𝑃K𝑎(𝑒, ∅) = true
H0
otherwise.
Our hypothesis is 𝜋1(J<𝜙𝐻K(𝜎𝑘· 𝑒, ∅)) = ok. For <𝜙𝐻≠<(<𝜙𝐻′ ∧
𝑃), the conclusion follows from induction hypothesis. For <𝜙𝐻=
<(<𝜙𝐻′ ∧𝑃), by the semantics of <, ∃𝑖≤𝑘+1 such that 𝜋1(J<𝜙𝐻′ ∧
𝑃K(𝜎𝑖, ∅)) = ok. This could happen in two cases: If𝑖≤𝑘, then by the
semantics of < applied to 𝜎𝑘, 𝜋1(J<(<𝜙𝐻′ ∧𝑃)K(𝜎𝑘, ∅)) = ok. By the
hypothesis of the lemma, H (<(<𝜙𝐻′ ∧𝑃)) = ok. By induction hy-
pothesis, H0(<(<𝜙𝐻′ ∧𝑃)) = ok, hence UpdH(H,𝑒,𝑑∗)(<(<𝜙𝐻′ ∧
𝑃)) = ok. Otherwise if 𝑖= 𝑘+1, then 𝜋1(J<𝜙𝐻′ ∧𝑃K(𝜎𝑘·𝑒, ∅)) = ok,
which implies both 𝜋1(J<𝜙𝐻′K(𝜎𝑘· 𝑒, ∅)) = ok and 𝜋1(J𝑃K(𝜎𝑘·
𝑒, ∅)) = ok, meaning that J𝑃K𝑎(𝑒, ∅) = true. By induction hypothe-
sis applied to <𝜙𝐻′, H0(<𝜙𝐻′) = ok. So, by definition of UpdH:
UpdH(H,𝑒,𝑑∗)(<(<𝜙𝐻′ ∧𝑃)) = ok.
□
Lemma B.12 (Historical memory completeness). Let Π be
a DSL program, and let (𝑞0,𝑚0)
𝜎𝑘
−−→(𝑞,𝑚) be the run of A =
GenMon(NF(Π)) on 𝜎𝑘. For every <𝜙𝐻∈Φ<(Π):
𝜋1(J<𝜙𝐻K(𝜎𝑘, ∅)) = ok
=⇒𝑚H(<𝜙𝐻) = ok.
Proof. By induction on the length of the trace 𝑘.
Base case (𝑘= 0): 𝜋1(J<𝜙𝐻K(𝜎0, ∅)) = pending ≠ok since 𝜎0 is the
empty trace. The hypothesis is vacuously satisfied.
Inductive step: assume the lemma holds for a trace 𝜎𝑘−1 and the
corresponding run (𝑞0,𝑚0)
𝜎𝑘−1
−−−−→(𝑞′′,𝑚′′), i.e., for every <𝜙𝐻∈
Φ<(Π):
𝜋1(J<𝜙𝐻K(𝜎𝑘−1, ∅)) = ok
=⇒𝑚′′
H(<𝜙𝐻) = ok.
Consider 𝜎𝑘and the last transition of the run. By rule Par, 𝑚H =
UpdH(𝑚′′
H,𝑒𝑘,𝑑∗). We apply Lemma B.11 with H = 𝑚′′
H, 𝜎𝑘−1 as
the trace of length 𝑘−1, and 𝑒= 𝑒𝑘.
The premise of Lemma B.11 requires:
𝜋1(J<𝜙𝐻K(𝜎𝑘−1, ∅)) = ok
=⇒𝑚′′
H(<𝜙𝐻) = ok,
which holds because it is exactly our induction hypothesis. Then,
by applying Lemma B.11, for every <𝜙𝐻∈Φ<(Π):
𝜋1(J<𝜙𝐻K(𝜎𝑘, ∅)) = ok
=⇒𝑚H(<𝜙𝐻) = ok.
□
Theorem 6.3 (Completeness). For every DSL program Π and
finite trace 𝜎𝑘, if JΠK(𝜎𝑘) = violated, then A = GenMon(NF(Π))
reaches a bad configuration on some prefix 𝜎𝑘′ with 𝑘′ ≤𝑘, provided
that (i) every event relevant to the policy is delivered to the monitor
and (ii) at least one event is delivered after every deadline expiration.


Letterio Galletta
Proof. By Theorem B.4, JΠK(𝜎𝑘) = violated implies that the
normal form formula is violated too: 𝜋1(JNF(Π)K(𝜎𝑘, ∅)) = violated.
By the semantics of 𝐺, there exists a conjunct of NF(Π) that is
violated. Let 𝑖∗be the index of the first violating prefix of 𝜎𝑘(well-
defined by Proposition 5.6). We show that the run
(𝑞0,𝑚0)
𝜎𝑖∗
−−→(𝑞,𝑚)
of A on 𝜎𝑖∗reaches a bad configuration. We proceed by cases on
which conjunct is violated.
Safety case. We assume that a conjunct of the form ¬𝜓𝑖is violated,
namely 𝜋1(J¬𝜓𝑖K(𝜎𝑖∗, ∅)) = violated. By the semantics of ¬ at the
formula level, we have 𝜋1(J𝜓𝑖K(𝜎𝑖∗, ∅)) = ok.
By applying Lemma B.12 to the run (𝑞0,𝑚0)
𝜎𝑖∗
−−→(𝑞,𝑚), we have
for all <𝜙𝐻∈Φ<(Π), 𝜋1(J<𝜙𝐻K(𝜎𝑖∗, ∅)) = ok implies 𝑚H(<𝜙𝐻) =
ok.
By applying Lemma B.6 at step 𝑖∗, we have:
EJ𝜓𝑖K𝑚H (𝑒𝑖∗) = true.
The premise of rule S-Viol is satisfied and 𝐴𝑠
𝑖transitions to the
violated state at step 𝑖∗, hence (𝑞,𝑚) ∈bad with 𝑖∗≤𝑘.
Bounded-response case. We assume that the violated conjunct is of
the form 𝑃𝑗
1𝐹≤Δ𝑗𝑃𝑗
2. By the semantics of 𝐹≤Δ𝑗, there exists (𝑖, 𝜌𝑖,𝑑𝑖) ∈
I(𝜎𝑖∗, ∅) with 𝑒𝑖∗.𝑡> 𝑑𝑖and ¬sat(𝑖, 𝜌𝑖,𝑑𝑖, 𝜎𝑖∗). We show that the
run (𝑞0,𝑚0)
𝜎𝑖∗
−−→(𝑞,𝑚) reaches a bad configuration, i.e., that R-
Viol fires at step 𝑖∗.
Step 1 — instance insertion. By definition of I(𝜎𝑖∗, ∅), there exists
𝑖< 𝑖∗such that J𝑃𝑗
1K𝑎(𝑒𝑖, ∅) = (true, 𝜌𝑖) and 𝑑𝑖= 𝑒𝑖.𝑡+ Δ𝑗, where
𝑒𝑖is the last event of 𝜎𝑖. Since 𝑖< 𝑖∗, the run on 𝜎𝑖∗passes through
step 𝑖, and this is precisely the condition under which new fires: it
inserts (𝑑𝑖, 𝜌𝑖) into 𝐼𝑗at step 𝑖.
Step 2 — instance preservation. The instance (𝑑𝑖, 𝜌𝑖) remains in 𝐼𝑗
at every step ℓ∈(𝑖,𝑖∗]. By definition of rm, the instance (𝑑𝑖, 𝜌𝑖) is re-
moved at step ℓonly in two cases. When𝑒ℓ.𝑡≤𝑑𝑖and J𝑃𝑗
2K𝑎(𝑒ℓ, 𝜌𝑖) =
true: this is precisely the condition defining sat(𝑖, 𝜌𝑖,𝑑𝑖, 𝜎𝑖∗), con-
tradicting the hypothesis ¬sat(𝑖, 𝜌𝑖,𝑑𝑖, 𝜎𝑖∗). When 𝑒ℓ.𝑡> 𝑑𝑖: since
𝑖∗is the first violating prefix, 𝑒𝑖∗is the first event with 𝑒𝑖∗.𝑡> 𝑑𝑖.
Therefore, no step ℓ∈(𝑖,𝑖∗) has 𝑒ℓ.𝑡> 𝑑𝑖, and the only step in
(𝑖,𝑖∗] with 𝑒ℓ.𝑡> 𝑑𝑖is ℓ= 𝑖∗itself, at which R-Viol fires before rm
can remove the instance. In both cases the instance is not removed
before step 𝑖∗.
Step 3 — violation detection. At step 𝑖∗, we verify that vi(𝐼𝑗,𝑒𝑖∗holds.
By definition of vi, this requires (𝑑𝑖, 𝜌𝑖) ∈𝐼𝑗with 𝑒𝑖∗.𝑡> 𝑑𝑖. The
instance (𝑑𝑖, 𝜌𝑖) is in 𝐼𝑗at step 𝑖∗by Step 2, and 𝑒𝑖∗.𝑡> 𝑑𝑖by
the semantics of 𝐹≤Δ𝑗applied to 𝜎𝑖∗. Therefore vi(𝐼𝑗,𝑒𝑖∗) holds,
𝑈returns the flag violated, and by rule R-Viol, 𝐴𝑟
𝑗transitions to
violated at step 𝑖∗. Hence (𝑞,𝑚) ∈bad with 𝑖∗≤𝑘.
□
C
Additional Language Constructs
This appendix details the additional language features mentioned
in Section 8.1: four temporal operators (Appendix C.1), two reuse
mechanisms (Appendix C.2), and the standard library (Appendix C.3).
C.1
Temporal Operators
Bounded sequences and bounded safety are desugared into the base
temporal logic of Section 5, so the soundness and completeness
results of Section 6 apply directly. Bounded until and bounded count
require dedicated compilation schemes, described below.
Bounded sequences. A bounded sequence clause specifies a multi-
step protocol in which each step must occur within a given deadline
after the previous one:
sequence 𝐸1 then within Δ1 𝐸2 then within Δ2 𝐸3 . . .
The desugaring translates a sequence of 𝑛steps into 𝑛−1 indepen-
dent bounded-response clauses. For each consecutive pair (𝐸𝑖, 𝐸𝑖+1),
the compiler generates a synthetic let-declaration that records
whether 𝐸𝑖has occurred and a clause when 𝐸𝑖then within Δ𝑖𝐸𝑖+1
requiring the next step within the specified deadline. At runtime,
each clause is handled by the standard bounded-response mecha-
nism described in Section 7.3: it creates an entry in the response
map when 𝐸𝑖fires and raises a violation if 𝐸𝑖+1 does not arrive
before the deadline expires.
Bounded until. A bounded until clause asserts that once a condi-
tion 𝑃1 holds, a response 𝑃2 must occur within Δ:
while 𝑃1 then within Δ 𝑃2
Unlike bounded sequences, this construct is not desugared but
compiled directly into a two-state extended finite-state machine
(EFSM) maintained in a dedicated BPF map, keyed by (𝜅, clause_id).
The machine operates as follows:
• Idle. The initial state. When an event matching 𝑃1 arrives,
the machine transitions to Active and records a deadline of
𝑒.𝑡+ Δ.
• Active. On each subsequent event: if 𝑃2 matches, the obli-
gation is fulfilled and the machine returns to Idle; if the
deadline has expired, a violation is raised and the machine
resets.
As with all bounded-response clauses, if no event arrives before the
deadline, the timeout scanner in the runtime daemon (Section 7.4)
detects the expiry.
Bounded count. A bounded count clause raises a violation when
an event 𝐸occurs 𝑁or more times within a sliding time window:
count 𝐸≥𝑁within Δ
Note that exists(𝐸, Δ) is syntactic sugar for count 𝐸≥1 within
Δ. The construct compiles to a per-key counter stored in a dedicated
BPF map, keyed by (𝜅, clause_id). Each entry holds a counter and
a window-start timestamp. When an event matching 𝐸arrives: if
the current time exceeds the window start by more than Δ, the
window is reset (counter set to 1, timestamp updated); otherwise,
the counter is incremented. A violation is raised whenever the
counter reaches 𝑁.
Bounded safety. A bounded safety clause raises a violation when
a predicate 𝑃holds while a guard 𝐺has been observed in the recent
past:
forbid 𝑃when 𝐺within Δ
Intuitively, the clause forbids 𝑃whenever the guard 𝐺has been
observed within the preceding Δ time units; for example, “forbid an
outbound connection to a destination that was already contacted
in the last ten seconds” (beacon detection). Unlike when 𝐺then
within Δ 𝑃of Section 5, which is a liveness obligation (a missing
𝑃is the violation), bounded safety is a safety property: the violation


Enforcement of In-Kernel Stateful Security Policies via eBPF
is raised inline in the BPF hook when 𝑃fires, with no need for a
timeout scanner. The construct is syntactic sugar for the conjunc-
tion of a bounded count on 𝐺over the same window and a standard
forbid 𝑃when 𝐻clause guarded by the resulting historical pred-
icate 𝐻; the compiler implements it directly by emitting the same
per-key counter of bounded count and checking it at the firing of 𝑃,
avoiding the creation of an intermediate history entry.
C.2
Reuse Constructs
Both constructs below are resolved entirely at desugaring time;
therefore, the BPFence compilation pipeline (type checking, nor-
malization, code generation) remains unchanged.
Parameterized templates. A parameterized template is a named,
reusable block of policy clauses with formal parameters:
let rate_check(ev, threshold, window) = {
forbid count ev(any) >= threshold within window
}
A template is instantiated at the use site via the use construct,
which binds actual arguments to the formal parameters:
use rate_check(connect, 100, 60s)
The desugaring phase resolves each use by looking up the template
definition, validating that all formal parameters are supplied, and
substituting the actual arguments into the template body by replac-
ing event names in predicates and duration literals as appropriate.
The expansion is recursive: if a template body contains further use
invocations, they are expanded in turn. Cyclic template references
are detected at compile time and reported as an error.
Policy inheritance. A policy can extend another policy, inheriting
all of its clauses:
policy base_sandbox {
apply to pid action deny
on violation { log }
forbid exec("/bin/sh")
forbid load_module(_)
}
policy strict_sandbox extends base_sandbox {
apply to pid action kill
on violation { log }
forbid connect(_, _)
}
The desugaring phase resolves inheritance transitively: if policy 𝐴
extends 𝐵and 𝐵extends 𝐶, the clauses of 𝐶and 𝐵are prepended
to those of 𝐴in order. The child policy retains its own declared
action (e.g., Deny, Kill); only the clause body is inherited. Circular
inheritance chains are detected via a visited set during resolution
and reported as a compile-time error.
C.3
Standard Library
BPFence ships a standard library that provides pre-defined schema
modules and policy templates, allowing users to write policies
against common Linux subsystems without specifying low-level
hook signatures.
Schema modules. The standard library ships four schema mod-
ules covering 14 events across file access, process lifecycle, network
connections, and kernel operations (linux.files, linux.process,
linux.network, and linux.kernel). Each event is mapped to a
specific kernel hook and declares the fields extracted from the hook
arguments. Of the 14 events, 13 attach to LSM hooks (controllable:
enabling Deny and Kill), and one (clone, via tracepoint) is only
observable (Alert). The full list is in the online repository.
Policy templates. Four reusable policy templates are provided,
each implementing a well-known security pattern:
• The Chinese Wall template prevents an entity from ac-
cessing resources in two competing classes (parameter-
ized by two path patterns), implementing the Brewer–Nash
model [7] via historical predicates.
• The Sandboxing template restricts a set of dangerous oper-
ations (exec, network send, mount, load_module) after a
triggering event, parameterized by the trigger predicate.
• The Data-loss prevention (DLP) template forbids network
transmission to a given destination after data has been read
from a sensitive path, using cross-event correlation.
• The Rate limiting template raises a violation when an event
exceeds a fixed threshold within a time window, imple-
mented via the bounded-count operator.
Each template is instantiated via the use construct described in
Appendix C.2, requiring only the policy-specific parameters (e.g.,
path patterns, trigger events) to produce a fully functional policy.
