Title: Towards Standardized Evaluation of GPU Memory Safety with GMSBench

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2609.08871v1

Published Time: Wed, 09 Sep 2026 03:53:41 GMT

Number of Pages: 5

Markdown Content:
> 1

# Towards Standardized Evaluation of GPU Memory Safety with GMSBench 

Saurabh Singh ∗, Jaewon Lee †, Seonjin Na ‡, and Hyesoon Kim ∗∗Georgia Institute of Technology, †Microsoft, ‡NVIDIA saurabh.s@gatech.edu, jaewonlee@microsoft.com, sna@nvidia.com, hyesoon@cc.gatech.edu 

Abstract —As GPUs become increasingly integral to high-performance computing and machine learning, ensuring memory safety in GPU programs has become crucial for reliable and secure execution. However, evaluating GPU memory safety tech-niques remains challenging due to the lack of comprehensive and standardized benchmarks. In this paper, we present GMSBench, a GPU memory safety benchmark designed to evaluate a broad range of memory safety violations across different GPU memory spaces and execution scenarios. GMSBench comprises 149 self-contained CUDA tests spanning spatial, temporal, and concur-rency errors. The suite provides a standardized foundation for the evaluation and comparative analysis of GPU memory safety mechanisms and helps expose gaps in their detection coverage. We demonstrate the utility of GMSBench by evaluating Compute Sanitizer, a widely used GPU memory error detection tool across multiple GPU architectures. 

I. I NTRODUCTION 

Graphics Processing Units (GPUs) have become a corner-stone of modern computing, driving advancements in fields such as scientific computing, machine learning, and graphics rendering. The massively parallel architectures make them highly effective at handling intensive parallel workloads, but also introduce unique challenges for ensuring memory safety. In GPU applications, memory safety violations such as buffer overflows, out-of-bounds accesses, use-after-free, or race conditions can lead to erroneous results, crashes, or even security vulnerabilities. Recent studies have shown that GPU memory safety errors can be exploited to develop attacks that degrade application performance [1], hijack control flow [2], and even cross the CPU-GPU isolation layer and corrupt CPU memory [3]. Despite growing interest in GPU memory safety, evaluation of memory error detection and protection mechanisms remains challenging. GPU programs operate across a heterogeneous memory hierarchy that includes global, shared, local, and constant memory, each with distinct access, visibility, and sharing semantics. Existing works often rely on tool-specific collections of test cases, with substantial variation in the types of errors, memory spaces, and access patterns they cover. As a result, reported detection coverage is difficult to compare across techniques, and important classes of violations may remain untested. This lack of a common and systematic bench-mark makes it harder to assess the strengths and limitations of existing and future GPU memory safety mechanisms. Prior GPU memory safety works have evaluated their tech-niques using custom collections of memory error tests. For example, cuCatch [4] evaluates its approach using a closed-source benchmark suite, making it difficult to inspect the covered scenarios or reproduce the evaluation. In contrast, CuSafe [5] provides an open-source set of tests, but the suite is relatively small and covers only a limited subset of GPU mem-ory safety errors. More broadly, existing benchmarks differ substantially in availability, organization, documentation, and coverage, making it difficult to determine which vulnerability classes, memory spaces, and access patterns are exercised and to directly compare results across techniques. To address this gap, we present GMSBench, an open-source benchmark suite designed to provide a common and systematic foundation for evaluating hardware- and software-based GPU memory safety mechanisms. GMSBench contains carefully designed tests spanning across a broad range of vulnerability classes, memory spaces, allocation mechanisms, and access behaviors, enabling comprehensive and repro-ducible evaluations. This broad coverage allows GMSBench to expose weaknesses and blind spots in existing memory safety mechanisms while providing a consistent basis for comparison across different approaches. Overall, our contributions are as follows: 1) We develop a systematic classification of GPU mem-ory safety violations across spatial, temporal, and concurrency-related errors, and identify key dimensions affecting their manifestation and detection. 2) We present GMSBench , an open-source 1 benchmark suite that builds on this classification to evaluate GPU memory safety mechanisms. 3) We demonstrate the utility of GMSBench by evaluating a widely used GPU memory error detection tool across multiple GPU architectures and generations, and char-acterize its detection coverage across the benchmark. II. B ACKGROUND AND MOTIVATION 

A. GPU Memory Safety 

GPUs expose a heterogeneous memory hierarchy with dis-tinct address spaces, allocation mechanisms, lifetimes, and visibility rules. CUDA programs may access GPU global memory allocated by the host or device, per-thread local memory, per-block shared memory, constant memory, and host-pinned memory. These memories differ in how objects are allocated, addressed, and shared among GPU threads. 

> 1Available at: https://github.com/gthparch/GMSBench arXiv:2609.08871v1 [cs.CR] 8 Sep 2026 2

As a result, memory-safety violations on GPUs can manifest differently from those in conventional CPU programs. For example, an out-of-bounds access may cross directly from one valid global-memory allocation into another without accessing unmapped memory in between. Similarly, shared-memory violations may corrupt neighboring regions within a thread block, while local-memory violations depend on per-thread stack organization and object lifetime. Pinned-memory violations can directly affect data resident in host RAM, extending the impact of GPU memory errors beyond device memory. GPU programs also introduce concurrency-related errors whose manifestation depends on the relationship between threads, warps, and thread blocks. These architectural characteristics make GPU memory safety a multidimensional problem involving not only the type of violation, but also the affected memory space, allocation mechanism, object layout, and execution scope. 

B. Challenges in Evaluating GPU Memory Safety 

A variety of hardware and software mechanisms have been proposed to detect or prevent GPU memory-safety viola-tions [4]–[8]. However, evaluating these mechanisms remains difficult because existing studies rely on a small set of tests often tailored for a specific technique. Although such tests may demonstrate detection of individual bugs, they provide limited insight into overall coverage of the mechanism. Detection behavior can vary across violation types, memory spaces, allocation mechanisms, object layouts, and execution scopes. Existing mechanisms use a variety of detection strategies, such as allocation-bound tracking [4], [5], padding/redzones [6], and/or runtime metadata, and therefore expose different blind spots. For example, two global memory overflows may be detected differently based on whether the victim object is adjacent to the overflowing object or separated by an unallo-cated region or a live object. Likewise, mechanisms that detect global-memory violations may not provide equivalent cover-age for local or shared memory, and race-detection capabilities may depend on whether racing threads reside within the same warp, block, or different blocks. A useful benchmark must therefore expose these dimensions explicitly while isolating individual violations so that each result can be attributed to a specific detection capability. The test cases should also remain independent of detection mechanisms, allowing the same violations to be evaluated consistently across tools. Another challenge is establishing a reliable ground truth. A crash or non-zero return code does not necessarily indicate that the intended violation was detected, since the failure may result from a runtime error or a secondary effect of memory corruption. Similarly, an invalid access may silently corrupt another valid object without causing a crash. In some cases, a violation may be semantically present in the program but may not manifest as an observable error during native GPU execution. Evaluation must therefore distinguish between whether the violation actually manifested and whether the mechanism detected it. This separation is essential for accu-rately characterizing detection coverage and comparing differ-ent GPU memory-safety mechanisms. These challenges mo-tivate a benchmark that systematically captures GPU-specific memory-safety behaviors while independently establishing the manifestation of each violation whenever possible. III. GPU M EMORY SAFETY BENCHMARK 

Building on the challenges identified in Section II-B, we present GMSBench , a GPU memory safety benchmark suite inspired by prior efforts [4], [5]. GMSBench comprises 149 self-contained CUDA tests covering spatial errors, temporal errors, and data races across various GPU memory spaces and object relationships, as summarized in Figure 1. 

A. Design Principles 

GMSBench is designed around four key principles: 1) Systematic Coverage: The benchmark systematically covers the dimensions that influence the manifestation and detection of GPU memory-safety violations rather than exhaustively enumerating all possible combina-tions. GMSBench includes variants only when they represent a semantic distinction or can expose different detector behavior in current and future mechanisms. 2) Violation Isolation: Each test is self-contained and isolates a single memory safety violation, allowing the results to be attributed to a specific detection capability. 3) Independent Ground Truth: Whenever possible, GMSBench establishes ground truth through baseline execution that runs each test natively on the GPU with-out any protection mechanism. The baseline run checks for an observable effect such as sentinel corruption, disclosure of a planted value, or an incorrect result to determine whether the violation actually manifested. Tests that do not show reliable native manifestations are marked as detection-only .4) Mechanism-Agnostic: Tests remain independent of any particular detection mechanism. The shared GMS-Bench harness provides common allocation, layout, and ground-truth helpers, allowing the same test logic to be evaluated across different mechanisms. 

B. Classification of GPU Memory Safety Violations 1) Taxonomy: GMSBench organizes tests along four di-mensions as shown in Figure 1. 1 Error class identifies whether the violation is spatial, temporal, or a data race.  

> 2

Memory window identifies the memory domain(s) in-volved, such as global, local, shared, or constant memory, including cross-space accesses. 3 Object context captures how participating objects are allocated and how they relate to one another. This includes allocation mechanisms in global memory, static or dynamic placement in shared memory, stack-frame placement in local memory, and intra-object placement.  

> 4

Violation type identifies the specific memory-safety error being exercised, such as linear buffer over-reads/writes, tar-geted out-of-bounds read/write, use-after-free (UAF), invalid free (IF), double free (DF), uninitialized read (UR), use-after-scope (UAS), use-after-return (UAR), and lost update (LU). Additional class-specific variants, such as victim adjacency, access direction, or reuse timing, are included where they represent meaningful differences in behavior or detection. 3Host allocated Device allocated Host pinned         

> Error class Memory window Object context Violation type
> Linear over-read/write Targeted OOB R/W Use-after-free Invalid free Double free Use-after-scope Use-after-return Lost update
> 123334
> St St
> St to St St to Dy Dy to St Dy to Dy G to S L to S S to L
> Spatial Temporal
> Global Local
> Constant
> Host allocated Device allocated Host pinned
> Race
> Global Shared In warp In block Cross block In warp In block
> * Read only accesses. G: Global, L: Local, S: Shared, St: Static, Dy: Dynamic Beyond: access leaves the local/shared memory window.

*   

> Intra-obj Intra-obj Intra-obj Intra-frame
> Dy
> Inter-frame
> Dy
> Cross-space
> G to L L to G S to G
> Shared Global Local
> Intra-obj Inter-obj Beyond Beyond Uninitialized read Managed

Fig. 1. Classification of GPU Memory-Safety Violations in GMSBench 

2) Spatial Memory Safety: Spatial errors occur when a GPU thread accesses memory outside the intended bounds of an object. GMSBench covers spatial violations across global, local, shared, and constant memory. It also includes a cross-space category where a pointer derived from one memory space is used to access an object in another. It distinguishes linear buffer over-reads/writes from targeted out-of-bounds reads/writes and includes additional object-context variants where they may affect detector behavior. Global memory tests cover device-memory allocations cre-ated using host-side cudaMalloc() , device-side in-kernel 

malloc() , and pinned host-memory allocations created us-ing cudaHostAlloc() that are accessible to GPU kernels. 2

Global memory tests vary the relationship between the source and victim objects, including adjacent objects and objects separated by a freed gap or another live object. Local-memory tests distinguish accesses within a single stack frame from accesses that cross function-frame boundaries, and cover both statically and dynamically allocated stack objects. Shared memory tests cover interactions between static and dynami-cally allocated shared memory objects within a thread block. The adjacent and non-adjacent object relationships are in-cluded only in the static-to-static case where a live intervening object can be constructed reliably. Constant memory tests include linear and targeted out-of-bounds read variants, since constant memory cannot be written from device code. GMSBench also includes intra-object violations in global, local, shared, and constant memory, where a linear or tar-geted access crosses field boundaries within a single object. These tests probe whether detectors can distinguish sub-

> 2

cudaMallocManaged() contributes no spatial tests because its tested behavior was equivalent to cudaMalloc() .

object boundaries instead of relying only on allocation-level bounds. Cross-space tests use pointer arithmetic to redirect accesses from one GPU memory space to another. 3 These tests probe whether the detector distinguishes and tracks pointer provenance across GPU memory spaces rather than validating only the final address. Finally, since local and shared memory occupy bounded windows, GMSBench includes a beyond-window category in which a linear access reaches beyond the entire memory window. 

3) Temporal Memory Safety: Temporal errors involve ac-cesses or deallocations whose validity depends on an object’s lifetime or initialization state. GMSBench covers use-after-free (UAF), invalid free (IF), double free (DF), and uninitialized read (UR) errors in global memory, as well as use-after-return (UAR) and use-after-scope (UAS) errors in local memory. UAF, IF, and DF are not included for shared memory since shared memory is scoped to a thread block and has no explicit object deallocation during kernel execution. Furthermore, a reliable ground truth could not be established for shared-memory uninitialized reads. For global memory, GMSBench exercises temporal viola-tions across device-memory allocations created using host-side cudaMalloc() , device-side in-kernel malloc() al-locations, managed-memory allocations, and pinned host-memory allocations. UAF tests distinguish between immediate 

accesses, where a dangling pointer is used to access a freed region after deallocation, and delayed accesses, where the same address has been reallocated to a different object before the dangling access. This distinction probes whether a detector recognizes only memory that is currently invalid or also tracks allocation identity after the same address is reused. Aliased UAF tests free an object through one pointer and later access it through a copied alias, probing whether detectors track object lifetime across pointer aliases. Managed memory contributes only a delayed UAF variant because a freed managed region is unmapped on deallocation, causing a dangling read to fault rather than disclose the planted value, unlike cudaMalloc() 

memory, which remains readable after deallocation. IF tests exercise deallocation using pointers that do not point to the start of a valid allocation or that originate from mismatched allocators. DF tests probe deallocation of the same object more than once. UR tests probe reads that occur before the object’s contents have been initialized. Local-memory tests also cover two stack lifetime errors: use-after-scope (UAS) and use-after-return (UAR). UAS tests access local objects after their lexical scope ends, while UAR tests access local objects after the defining function returns. These tests also include immediate and delayed variants depending on whether the expired stack object is accessed before or after subsequent reuse. These cases test whether detectors track GPU local-memory lifetimes across scopes and function calls. 

4) Data Races: Data races occur when multiple GPU threads access the same memory location without synchro-nization, with at least one write. In GMSBench, data-race tests use unsynchronized non-atomic read-modify-write operations 

> 3

Linear overflows are excluded because they reach the source memory window boundary before reaching another memory window 4

on a common counter, causing lost updates that provide a deterministic observable effect. The benchmark varies the re-lationship between racing threads; shared-memory races cover intra-warp and intra-block cases, while global-memory races additionally include cross-block cases. These tests evaluate whether detectors can identify data races across different GPU thread relationships and memory scopes. 

C. Test Design 

Every test is a self-contained CUDA file defining exactly one gms_test() function. A common harness provides the program entry point, allocation and layout helpers, allowing individual tests to focus on the violation being exercised. As shown in Listing 1, a typical test follows three steps: (1) construct the memory layout required by the test, (2) trigger exactly one memory safety violation, and (3) expose an observable effect that can be checked during baseline execution.  

> 1

#include "gms.h"  

> 23

__global__ void test_kern(uint8_t *buf, uint8_t *sentinel) { 

> 4

uintptr_t dist = (uintptr_t)sentinel - (uintptr_t)buf;  

> 5

for (size_t i = 0; i < dist + 4; i++)  

> 6

buf[i] = 0xef; // overflow  

> 7

} 

> 89

void gms_test() { 

> 10

uint8_t h_expected[16], h_got[16];  

> 11

uint8_t *d_buf, *d_sentinel;  

> 12

init_sentinel(h_expected, 16);  

> 13

// Allocate adjacent attacker and victim buffers  

> 14

gms_cuda_malloc_adjacent(&d_buf, &d_sentinel, 32, 16);  

> 15

cudaMemcpy(d_sentinel, h_expected, 16, cudaMemcpyHostToDevice);  

> 16

// Trigger violation  

> 17

test_kern<<<1, 1>>>(d_buf, d_sentinel);  

> 18

// Detect sentinel corruption  

> 19

cudaMemcpy(h_got, d_sentinel, 16, cudaMemcpyDeviceToHost);  

> 20

CUDA_CHECK_LAST_ERROR();  

> 21

gms_check_sentinel(h_got, h_expected, 16);  

> 22

gms_print_test_result();  

> 23

}

Listing 1. Adjacent-buffer overflow test in GMSBench. 

The layout helpers are used to construct controlled memory layouts rather than assuming a particular allocator behavior. For example, gms_cuda_malloc_adjacent repeatedly allocates buffers and measures their addresses until the re-quired attacker-victim placement is achieved. Similar helpers are used to create non-adjacent layouts, pinned-memory lay-outs, and reclaimed allocations for temporal tests. We establish ground truth by running each test natively on the GPU without any protection mechanism. For write violations, GMSBench checks whether a planted sentinel value was corrupted; for OOB reads, it checks whether a planted value was disclosed; and for data races, it checks whether execution produced a deterministic incorrect result. For invalid-free and double-free tests with a reliable runtime signal, GMSBench uses the CUDA runtime’s rejection of the illegal deallocation as the observable effect. For uninitialized reads, GMSBench checks whether a known stale value is observed when reliable native manifestation is possible. For violations that are semantically present but do not produce a reliable native manifestation, GMSBench marks the test as detection-only and evaluates the mechanism using its own diagnostic output. GMSBench uses a config-driven runner to execute the tests across different targets. Each target specifies how a test is compiled and executed, along with diagnostic patterns used to identify tool-reported detections. This separates benchmark ground truth from mechanism-specific detection and allows the same tests to be evaluated consistently across targets. If a required layout or allocation condition cannot be established, the runner reports SETUP_FAIL rather than treating it as a detector miss. IV. E VALUATION 

We evaluate GMSBench by measuring (1) violation man-ifestation under native CUDA execution and (2) detection coverage using NVIDIA Compute Sanitizer (CompSan) [6], with its memcheck , initcheck , and racecheck tools. We also include a variant of memcheck with API errors enabled and call it apicheck .4 Each tool runs on the applicable set of GMSBench tests. To assess the robustness of the benchmark, we evaluate the suite on three NVIDIA GPU platforms: a workstation-grade RTX A5000 ( Ampere , SM_86 ) and a datacenter A100 ( Ampere , SM_80 ), both with x86 hosts, and a datacenter GH200 Grace Hopper system with an AArch64 

Grace CPU and Hopper GPU ( SM_90 ). 

TABLE I GMSB ENCH RESULTS ACROSS GPU P LATFORMS                                                                                                                                                                                                                          

> Test Classification No. tests RTX A5000 / A100 / GH200 native memcheck apicheck initcheck racecheck
> spatial global host-allocated 10 10 2---device-allocated 10 10 6---host-pinned 10 10 2---intra-object 440---local intra-frame 16 16 0---inter-frame 880---intra-object 440---beyond 20∗2---shared static2static 880---static2dynamic 440---dynamic2static 440---dynamic2dynamic 440---intra-object 440---beyond 20∗2---constant inter-object 440---intra-object 220---cross global2local 220---global2shared 220---local2global 220---shared2global 220---local2shared 220---shared2local 220---temporal global host-allocated 13 12 ∗15 (5) 3 (3) -device-allocated 64∗21 (2) 1 (1) -managed 220---host-pinned 7714 (4) --local 80∗0---race global in warp 11---0in blk 11---0cross block 11---0shared in warp 11---1in blk 11---1
> Totals 149 134/149 18/144 10/11 4/4 2/5 (90%) (12.5%) (91%) (100%) (40%)
> Native: number of tests whose intended violation manifests during native CUDA execution.
> ∗One or more tests do not manifest during native execution and are included for detection only
> x(y)means xtests were detected among yapplicable tests

Cross-platform invariance: We ran the benchmarks compiled with the -arch=native flag so that device code is generated for the GPU it runs on. As shown in Table I, the native manifestation and tool verdicts are identical across all GPU architectures we tested. The invariance holds even for the local-memory tests, where register allocation and stack layout 

> 4

memcheck with --report-api-errors=explicit 5

genuinely differ across the three targets. This is because the suite assigns attacker and victim roles by measured address at runtime rather than by declaration order. The invariance also holds for data races despite their schedule-dependent execution. 

Compute Sanitizer Coverage: In our experiments, CompSan variants behaved consistently across all platforms. Memcheck ,CompSan’s memory-error detection tool, detected only 18 /144 

tests across the spatial and temporal error classes. For global memory, memcheck detects linear overflows that cross a freed gap but misses overflows into an adjacent buffer or a non-adjacent buffer separated by a live intervening object. Since 

memcheck uses a tripwire-based mechanism [4], it misses linear overflows which land directly in another live allocation without crossing an invalid region. It misses targeted OOB accesses that jump over the tripwire and land in another valid memory region. It also misses all intra-object and cross-space violations, indicating that the tool does not track sub-object boundaries or pointer provenance. An important exception is device-heap memory allocated using in-kernel malloc() ,where memcheck detects all linear overflow variants, including accesses into live neighboring objects. For temporal errors, 

memcheck detects immediate UAF accesses but misses delayed and aliased UAFs. This indicates that memcheck does not track allocation identity after an address is reused by another object. Other CompSan tools like apicheck , racecheck , initcheck 

provide stronger coverage within their intended scopes. 

apicheck detects 10 /11 invalid- and double-free tests by re-porting CUDA API errors, but misses the device-heap double free performed through in-kernel free() . initcheck detects all 4/4 uninitialized-read tests. racecheck detects 2/5 race tests, correctly identifying both shared-memory races while missing all three global-memory races. V. R ELATED WORK 

Prior work has developed synthetic test suites to evaluate GPU memory-safety tools. cuCatch [4] used a set of 56 CUDA tests covering spatial and temporal violations across global, local, and shared memory but is not publicly available and uses a relatively coarse classification. It also does not cover dimen-sions such as cross-memory-space violations and data races. CuSafe [5] provides an open-source benchmark containing 33 tests covering spatial and temporal errors, including linear and non-linear overflows and local memory violations, but remains limited in size and taxonomy. Neither suite systematically covers constant memory, host-pinned memory, cross-window provenance violations, uninitialized reads, aliased UAF, or data races under a single taxonomy. In contrast, GMSBench provides a larger and more fine-grained benchmark. Table II summarizes the differences in benchmark coverage based on the taxonomy defined in Section III-B1. Beyond benchmarks, several works have proposed GPU memory-safety tools for CUDA and OpenCL with different detection models. These use a range of detection mecha-nisms, including redzones/canaries, object-bounds tracking, pointer metadata, compiler instrumentation, runtime checking, and hardware-software co-design [4], [5], [7]–[10]. These approaches provide different coverage across memory spaces, allocation mechanisms, and error classes, motivating a com-mon benchmark for systematic comparison. 

TABLE II COMPARISON OF EXISTING GPU M EMORY -S AFETY BENCHMARKS              

> Name No. Tests Open aError Class Memory Window Object Context Violation Type
> CuSafe [5] 33 ✓
> cuCatch [4] 56 ✗
> GMSBench (Ours) 149 ✓
> Circle fill denotes coverage of the corresponding GMSBench taxonomy
> aBenchmark source-code availability

VI. CONCLUSION 

In this paper, we presented a systematic taxonomy for GPU memory safety and introduced GMSBench, an open-source benchmark suite for systematic evaluation of GPU memory safety mechanisms. GMSBench covers diverse GPU memory spaces, allocation mechanisms, access patterns, and execution scopes, providing a common foundation for re-producible evaluation and comparison. Our evaluation across three GPU platforms shows consistent benchmark behavior and reveals several systematic gaps in Compute Sanitizer’s detection coverage. REFERENCES [1] S.-O. Park, O. Kwon, Y. Kim, S. K. Cha, and H. Yoon, “Mind control attack: Undermining deep learning with gpu memory exploitation,” 

Comput. Secur. , vol. 102, no. C, Mar. 2021. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2020.102115 [2] Y. Guo, Z. Zhang, and J. Yang, “GPU memory exploitation for fun and profit,” in 33rd USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 24) . Philadelphia, PA: USENIX Association, Aug. 2024, pp. 4033–4050. [Online]. Available: https://www.usenix.org/conference/ usenixsecurity24/presentation/guo-yanan [3] S. Roh, W. Choi, J. Chung, Y. Lee, S. Song, and B. Lee, “Ghost in the shell: A gpu-to-host memory attack and its mitigation,” in 2026 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP) , 2026, pp. 456–471. [4] M. Tarek Ibn Ziad, S. Damani, A. Jaleel, S. W. Keckler, and M. Stephenson, “cucatch: A debugging tool for efficiently catching memory safety violations in cuda applications,” Proc. ACM Program. Lang. , vol. 7, no. PLDI, Jun. 2023. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/3591225 [5] H. Lu, F. Zhang, Z. Zhang, S. Wang, and Y. Guo, “CuSafe: Capturing memory corruption on NVIDIA GPUs,” in 35th USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 26) . Baltimore, MD: USENIX Association, Aug. 2026. [Online]. Available: https://www.usenix.org/ conference/usenixsecurity26/presentation/lu-hongyi [6] “Nvidia compute sanitizer,” 2026. [Online]. Available: https://developer. nvidia.com/compute-sanitizer [7] J. Lee, Y. Kim, J. Cao, E. Kim, J. Lee, and H. Kim, “Securing gpu via region-based bounds checking,” in Proceedings of the 49th Annual International Symposium on Computer Architecture , ser. ISCA ’22. New York, NY, USA: Association for Computing Machinery, 2022, p. 27–41. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/3470496.3527420 [8] J. Lee, E. Chung, S. Singh, S. Na, Y. Kim, J. Lee, and H. Kim, “Let-me-in: (still) employing in-pointer bounds metadata for fine-grained gpu memory safety,” in 2025 IEEE International Symposium on High Performance Computer Architecture (HPCA) , 2025, pp. 1648–1661. [9] M. Tarek Ibn Ziad, S. Damani, M. Stephenson, S. W. Keckler, and A. Jaleel, “Gpuarmor: A hardware-software co-design for efficient and scalable memory safety on gpus,” ACM Trans. Archit. Code Optim. , vol. 23, no. 3, Jul. 2026. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/3815783 [10] B. Di, J. Sun, D. Li, H. Chen, and Z. Quan, “Gmod: a dynamic gpu memory overflow detector,” in Proceedings of the 27th International Conference on Parallel Architectures and Compilation Techniques ,ser. PACT ’18. New York, NY, USA: Association for Computing Machinery, 2018. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/3243176. 3243194