Title: SpiderSapien: Client-Centric Web Crawler and Security Scanner

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2609.02532v1

Published Time: Thu, 03 Sep 2026 01:04:48 GMT

Number of Pages: 20

Markdown Content:
# SpiderSapien: Client-Centric Web Crawler and Security Scanner 

Eric Olsson 

Chalmers University of Technology and University of Gothenburg 

Benjamin Eriksson 

Chalmers University of Technology and University of Gothenburg 

Adam Doup´ e

Arizona State University 

Andrei Sabelfeld 

Chalmers University of Technology and University of Gothenburg 

Abstract —Black-box web application crawling and scanning play an important role for security testing of web applications. Yet state-of-the-art scanners fall short of addressing key charac-teristics of a modern web application: its extreme dynamism and interactivity on the client side. This paper identifies immersive interaction as a key ingredient for scanners to deeply explore modern web applications. We propose SpiderSapien , a client-centric crawler and security scanner. SpiderSapien incorporates a unique combination of high-level, user-facing feedback channels from the web application to achieve immersive interaction in a black-box crawling loop. These feedback channels include both novel methods to detect interactable elements and sensibly order UI interactions, and orthogonally using an LLM to solve forms. In doing so, we demonstrate how to reliably discover and test deep states of modern web applications. Furthermore, our modular approach and useful abstraction layer can serve as a building block for future scanners. The evaluation of our approach shows substantial improvements in both code coverage and vulnerability detection over previous work. Our approach increased average code coverage across applications by at least 46% over any other scanner, or 16% when compared to the union of all other scanners. We find XSS vulnerabilities in 7 web applications, while any other scanner finds XSS in up to 2 applications. 

I. I NTRODUCTION 

Black-box security scanning is a natural fit for detecting vulnerabilities in web applications. These scanners use a black-box web crawler to interact with a web application, iteratively discovering functionality and testing it for vulnerabilities. Because they require only a running web application and a scanner, black-box scanners are largely independent of the frameworks and languages underlying the web application. 

Black-box Scanners and the Web. Historically, as web applications have incorporated more functionality along with their associated complexity, security scanning techniques were developed in short order to handle these new features. In the 2000s, “sitemap” style black-box crawlers such as Skipfish [1] and w3af [2] could reliably scan the Web 1.0 —websites com-posed of primarily statically linked content. While supporting basic web application interactions via inputs in request param-eters and forms, these scanners mainly focused on following static links by parsing HTML. However, by the early 2010s Web 2.0 had evolved to include dynamic stateful web applications with multi-step flows that could not be modeled well by the first generation of scanners. New black-box scanning methods such as the Enemy of the State [3] responded by incorporating a more complex internal state model. The additional client-side functionality of Web 2.0-style applications also motivated the concurrent develop-ment of yet more black-box crawlers such as CrawlJax [4] and j ¨ Ak [5], which incorporated support for either AJAX or broader JavaScript applications. 

New Scale of Complexity. In the decade since this second generation of black-box crawlers, the characterization of Web 2.0 as consisting of stateful web applications with rich client-side functionality has remained the same. However, the scale of this complexity , in terms of the dynamic statefulness and interactive client-side functionality of these applications, has exceeded the ability of these black-box scanners to handle. While “software is eating the world” [6], we are now in an era where web applications eat software . Software services that were once offered as desktop applications can now be accessed through web interfaces. For example, Nextcloud delivers full office productivity suites online through its open-source collaboration platform. These web interfaces have the same core challenges for crawling, statefulness, and client-side interactivity, but at a new scale due to the inherent complexity of the functionality they now include. We refer to web applications with this scale of dynamism and client-side interactivity as modern web applications . Scanning these modern web applications requires that the scanner either be able to navigate multi-step stateful flows, or compose complex structured inputs to backend services that might result from the composition of multiple user steps in the actual application. Without this, the deep behavior of these web applications stays hidden and untested for vulnerabilities. The key limitation is not merely that current scanners miss individual buttons or fail individual forms. Rather, they often observe and manipulate the application at abstractions different from those exposed to users: URLs, request parameters, HTML tag names, or event listeners instead of the actual rendered interface and the valid actions that it enables. 

Insufficient Current Approaches. In practice, black-box scanners only discover a fraction of the functionality and endpoints of these web applications. Some portion of the arXiv:2609.02532v1 [cs.CR] 2 Sep 2026 application is never tested because discovering and executing a correct sequence of client-side actions is unlikely. Scan-ners that avoid client-side actions and instead work directly with server-side requests are also unlikely to succeed, as the problem then transforms to either handling multiple stateful requests, or generating highly structured network inputs. As a result, current black-box approaches are unlikely to explore these applications deeply. 

Interaction strategy and deep states. Constructing an 

interaction strategy that can navigate the client-side interface of modern web applications to explore their deep states has been the elusive target of prior works [7], [8]. Recent work on EvoCrawl [9] and YuraScanner [10] makes progress on this goal, leveraging evolutionary search and LLM task-driven scanning, respectively. Yet, fundamental challenges of achieving tight interaction with the web application remain open. 

Approach. We identify immersive interaction as a key ingredient for scanners to deeply explore modern web ap-plications. Our approach has the aim of generating actions in a fashion similar to a human . Therefore, we focus on interacting with the application’s client-side interface. This requires the scanner to be aware of how the web application presents itself in the browser: in other words, the signals from high-level, user-facing feedback channels that normal users consume. Under immersive interaction , high-level feedback should be used to inform which actions the scanner performs. Furthermore, these actions should be performed as they would be in a browser. Rather than mainly interacting through low-level URLs, network requests, or event listeners, we instead develop a scanner focused on valid client-side actions .This scanner, SpiderSapien , implements a black-box crawl-ing approach that can interact with complex client-side ap-plications by integrating three pillars of interactivity : (1) detecting interactable elements, (2) ordering UI interactions, and (3) complex form solving using LLMs. We develop novel methods for the first two pillars while adopting YuraScanner’s approach to form solving. All of these improvements to specific components are enabled by adding high-level, user-facing feedback channels to the black-box crawler, as shown in Figure 1. Recent black-box crawlers and LLM-assisted scanners ad-dress related parts of this problem from different directions. EvoCrawl improves the ordering of UI interactions, and Yura-Scanner demonstrates how LLMs can support task-oriented scanning and form solving. SpiderSapien takes a complemen-tary direction: it redesigns the black-box crawling loop around user-facing browser feedback. The resulting scanner combines framework-agnostic interactable element discovery, interaction ordering, and LLM-based form solving in a recurrent crawler. This combination allows SpiderSapien to discover new ap-plication states and reach in-depth functionality, especially in applications where later actions are only exposed after earlier interactions. In contrast, single-pass task-solving approaches such as YuraScanner can be limited when effective exploration requires repeatedly discovering, acting on, and revisiting newly Crawling Strategy Element Discovery Form Solving   

> Browser LLM Web Application
> New, Active, Input, Forms Client-side actions Form input tabindex, cursor, visibility Seed URL Application response
> Fig. 1. The black-box crawling loop of SpiderSapien. Starting at a seed URL, we discover interactable elements on the page with user-facing signals from the browser. Our crawling strategy selects a valid client-side action to take, using high-level signals about elements. If a form is selected, form solving queries an LLM for appropriate input. Form inputs and other actions are executed on the web application.

exposed states (see Section C). Compared to both YuraScanner and EvoCrawl, our approach alone has general interactable element discovery regardless of client-side framework. We dis-cuss in detail the differences between these systems throughout Sections III to VI. Our method provides a complementary building block to improve the performance of these and future work (see Section V-A). 

Evaluation. We evaluate crawling performance on 9 open-source web applications compared to 6 black-box scanners. We select these web applications based on their popularity and inclusion in prior work (see Table VIII). While we characterize these as complex modern applications, arguably “classic” applications such as HotCRP are included. Yet, HotCRP is still far from solved (see Section IV-E). Our approach increased average code coverage across appli-cations by at least 46% over any other scanner, or 16% when compared to the union of all other scanners. Our approach also finds 32 XSS vulnerabilities across 7 of the 9 applications, while 29 are found by the other scanners in 3 applications. This breadth is important: while other scanners can find many vulnerabilities in one application, any individual scanner finds XSS in at most 2 applications, whereas SpiderSapien finds XSS across 7 applications. We also perform additional evaluations investigating our scanner and its performance, by analyzing the application states it reaches, its client-side coverage, the non-semantic interactable elements it discovers, and removing components of it in two ablation studies. 

Contributions. We offer the following contributions:  

> •

We develop a novel method that can drive black-box scan-ners to test deeper program states in modern web applica-tions by using high-level feedback to generate valid client actions and inputs in Section III.  

> •

We implement our method into SpiderSapien, a fully black-box crawler and XSS scanner, using an LLM for form solving.  

> •

We evaluate our black-box scanning method as well as 6 others on 9 web applications in Section IV. SpiderSapien finds 32 XSS vulnerabilities in 7 applications.  

> •

We analyze our findings and share insights for future works in Section V. II. C HALLENGES 

Exploring modern web applications from a black-box per-spective remains a difficult task for fully automated systems. One way to improve scanners is to lift the web application interaction abstractions to be at the same level as actual users. Taking cues from user-facing signals from the application, and performing valid actions with the client-side interface can allow a scanner to navigate stateful workflows and discover deep states. Therefore, integrating immersive interaction into a scanner’s interaction strategy is vital. We identify interaction strategy as the key overarching challenge and decompose it into three subchallenges. 

Interaction Strategy. Black-box crawlers must first inter-act with a web application to discover the endpoints or func-tionality through an iterative process. Stafeev and Pellegrino distinguish black-box crawlers by their navigation strategies, used to decide what page to visit and in what order, and page similarity methods, used to identify duplicate application states [11]. Rather than modifying only those components, we change 

the whole crawling loop to function at a more suitable abstrac-tion level for our goal of mimicking normal web application users. Rather than use low-level URLs, network requests, or JavaScript event listeners, we use high-level valid client-side actions. Furthermore, user-facing feedback informs users of how to interact with applications. While an input can be implemented in many different ways, high-level properties of these elements, such as their styling, focus, and other behavior, are the mechanisms web applications use to indicate interactability to their users. Therefore, our scanner selects client-side actions based on these feedback channels in the browser. We thereby improve a scanner’s ability to interact with and find vulnerabilities deep in modern web applications. Modern web applications are stateful on both the server-and client-side, and they have complex series of client-side interactions. Furthermore, these rich client-side interactions are often multi-step: different options are presented depending on the previous client-side interactions. While prior black-box scanners can theoretically discover new vulnerable application behavior despite it being locked behind multiple stateful interactions, this is unlikely. We focus on improving the interaction strategy of black-box crawlers to handle modern web applications. We realized that prior work, when using aspects of the web application to determine a navigation strategy, i.e., CSS, HTML, and JavaScript, were not using these resources in such a way that the behavior of the rendered DOM was accurately inferred or modeled by the scanner. We identify three main challenges in adapting a scanner’s interaction strategy—(1) detecting inter-actable elements , (2) ordering interactions , and (3) generating inputs for forms .

Detecting Interactable Elements. A major source of com-plexity in modern web applications for scanners is from the client-side JavaScript code. While the client-side code pro-duces links, buttons, text fields, and other interactable elements that are designed for users to easily identify and interact with, this same task challenges automated scanners. Part of the challenge is the lack of HTML semantic meaning applied to interactable elements. Instead of using the traditional a

element or button element, which convey clickable HTML semantics, modern web applications can (and often do) use semantically meaningless (in terms of interactability) label 

elements or custom tag names, often due to the frameworks used. Such elements will not be found by crawlers, including EvoCrawl [9], that rely on specific HTML tags. Furthermore, approaches that rely on a fixed set of HTML tags are funda-mentally static and must be constantly updated to the changing web. Apart from the semantic meaning of tags, JavaScript event listeners (e.g., onclick ), can also be used to infer if an element is interactable. In the simplest case, a static attribute sets the event listener. A limitation of state-of-the-art scanners, including YuraScanner [10] and Black Widow [8], is detecting elements with dynamically assigned event handlers or custom event handling. This is a common pattern as many JavaScript frameworks (e.g., jQuery) have custom event handling and capture all events on parent elements (or even the DOM body), which divorces the event listener from the relevant element. From the scanner’s perspective, an element will not have any event listeners, obscuring its interactability. 

Order of Interactions. In addition to correctly modelling which elements can be interacted with, as well as the type of interaction, e.g., click, type text, drag-and-drop, etc., the order of interactions also matters. For example, a page might have a button that opens a form in a modal overlaid HTML popup. For the user, it is clear that the form can now be interacted with and that the covered elements behind the form cannot. However, a scanner that simply analyzes the HTML and DOM will not recognize the difference between the now interactable form and non-interactable elements behind it and will perform actions in the wrong order. This will close the form prematurely, losing a chance to interact with it in the correct state. Alternatively, trying to interact with the elements behind the form will have no effect in their non-interactable state. Another aspect that complicates this challenge is that a scanner could even click on hidden buttons, as JavaScript allows such behavior. However, the hidden button receiving the click will likely not have its intended effect in the application. As such, scanners not only have to find all interactable elements, but also must determine which are currently inter-actable given the client-side state. This challenge means that scanners that support client-side actions, such as j ¨ Ak [5] and Black Widow [8], which might interact with elements in the correct order, still usually fail to access deep program states as they pick elements at random without prioritizing currently interactable elements . While the page abstraction in Yura-Scanner [10] considers visibility of elements, the scanner does not prioritize interaction with text elements. Consequently, it might fail to handle UI forms that require text input followed by clicks. 

Form Solving. The final challenge we identified in achiev-ing immersive interaction is that, even after a scanner can detect all interactable elements and understand the proper order of interactions, a scanner will still encounter complex forms in modern web applications. Thus, a scanner must be able to provide valid inputs to reach deep program states. Some examples of the inputs for form validation (which can be either performed partially or completely by the browser, client-side JavaScript code, or server-side code) include valid emails, numbers, URLs, zip codes, and ad-dresses. While HTML can provide semantic attributes for the browser to enforce—that could help the scanner determine input requirements—such annotations are optional. Examples include the type attribute on the input element and the more general regex-validation attribute pattern . When validation is performed client-side and these annotations are supplied, black-box crawlers such as Black Ostrich [12], can often solve their validation constraints and provide a matching input. However, HTML forms are as diverse as the web itself, and vary in their structure and validation. Therefore, many forms only explain the expected type of data in descriptive text for the intended user, making it difficult for scanners to automatically infer it. A more fundamental problem is that server-side code, invisible to the scanners, might perform data validation on the input. This web application logic can enforce validations that HTML semantics do not support. For example, required relations between inputs (e.g., in user registration forms the “password” and “confirm password” combination must be the same), or required relations between inputs and values in a database (e.g., inputs that must be unique across the application, such as “username” and “email”). The only hint of such validation can be in error messages, which may further lack any explicit relationship to the specific erroneous element/s. III. M ETHOD 

In each of the prior challenges, the low-level abstractions of previous methods fail to reliably discover interactable elements, choose their ordering, and provide form inputs in modern web applications. We propose SpiderSapien, a black-box crawling approach driven by immersive interac-tion, overviewed in Figure 1. SpiderSapien contributes novel methods for detecting interactable elements and ordering UI interactions. It also uses LLMs to solve forms, following the approach pioneered by YuraScanner. In doing so, we aim to more reliably discover and test deep states of modern web applications by operating at a higher abstraction level. 

A. Motivating Example 

To exemplify the increased complexity of modern web applications we present the following realistic example based on challenges seen in the core functionality of Piwigo and 

> Fig. 2. Web application flow with scanning challenges. The scenario is based on two real-world application workflows.

Kanboard. In a project-management web application, users can create new tasks by clicking on a button 1⃝ to generate a modal pop-up including a form. The user can then interact with the form 2⃝, allowing them to fill in the task details 

> 3

⃝ and submit. From the perspective of a scanner, there are multiple challenges (as detailed in Section II). Clicking on the button (Step 1⃝ in Figure 2) is challenging because it is not actually a button HTML element but instead a label (as is the case in Piwigo), and only the styling makes it visually appear to be a button. Furthermore, this label does not have any event listeners directly on the element, as the application instead relies on a global event handler from the popular jQuery library. After clicking, the form appears, and the next challenge for the scanner is to prioritize these newly visible and interactive elements in step 2⃝. If this is not taken into account, the scanner might try to interact with the blocked elements behind the modal, which will not trigger their event listeners. Clicking outside the modal causes the form to disappear, preventing future form interactions. Lastly, the form itself contains further data validation chal-lenges as the user must enter a numeric “number of hours” in step 3⃝. This validation requirement is not in the standard HTML semantics, such as type="number" or regex pat-terns, that would otherwise indicate that the values must be numeric. 

B. Client-side Crawling 

We design our tool SpiderSapien to implement immersive interaction, driving the web application into deep program states by reliably discovering and handling modern web appli-cation interactions. SpiderSapien is built on top of the open-source Black Widow [8] scanner, with tailored enhancements to the black-box crawling loop to enable immersive interaction. This is accomplished by identifying interactable elements, prioritizing element interactions, and using an LLM to fill in forms in the scanner. 1) Interactable Element Discovery: As discussed in Sec-tion II, a scanner’s ability to discover new web application behavior (and test that behavior) depends on it being able to identify the interactable elements on any given page. Prior scanners generally approach this task by either: (1) using predefined lists of interactable elements, usually based on the HTML semantics [13] such as EvoCrawl, or (2) identi-fying elements with associated event listeners and, possibly, hooking these event listeners such as YuraScanner. While not commonly used in security scanners, Firefox [14] uses a (3) third option by applying framework-specific static analysis of JavaScript to identify custom event listeners from libraries. However, these approaches do not generalize, either by: (1) not including custom element types, (2) failing to properly associate an event listener to a specific element, or (3) fail-ing to implement framework-specific static analysis of other libraries. In this work, while we use an initial list of semantic HTML input types ( a, button , form , and input ), our approach extends this continually with elements that indicate their interactability at runtime. This allows our method to handle step 1⃝ of the motivating example by correctly identifying the 

label acting as a button. EvoCrawl and YuraScanner do not identify this interactable element. We rely on the observation that application developers, JavaScript frameworks, and web browsers all aim to guide their human users with various hints of how they can use the web applications. Providing these hints is also useful for other accessibility clients or extensions, such as screen readers. However, some of these interactability hints cannot be generalized. For instance, a user might infer interactability based on the color scheme. Therefore, we identify further interactable elements, regardless of HTML type or framework, by inspecting the cursor behavior and tab index of elements. By dynamically checking the cursor property and 

tabindex of an element we can draw insight into the developer’s intended element semantics. Specifically, we check for the pointer value or a nonnegative tabindex value to determine if an element is clickable. According to the CSS specification [15], the pointer cursor should indicate a link. However, many single-page applications and frameworks, including React, Vue, and Angular [16], use the HTML a tag (link) to perform client-side actions by using event listeners on the tag and using fragment URLs or the javascript: 

pseudo protocol. The tabindex [17] attribute is another method developers can use to indicate that an element is focusable, and often also interactable. This tabindex attribute plays an impor-tant role in helping users of assistive technologies navigate websites. Similarly to pointer , we use the text value of the cursor to identify an element that supports text input. This is particularly useful for complex rich-text editors that rely on 

div s for user inputs. We also prune the list of interactable elements to prioritize active elements by inspecting their visibility at runtime. Ele-ments hidden underneath others cannot be clicked or otherwise interacted with, either from the perspective of a user or Sele-

Algorithm 1 Algorithm to discover interactable elements. 

semanticElements ← <a>, <button>, <input> , ... immersiveElements ←

pointer, text, tabIndex 

elements ← semanticElements ∪ immersiveElements interactables ← {} 

for element ∈ elements do 

{x, y } ← element.coordinates () 

topElement ← getElementBy (x, y )

if element == topElement then 

interactables.add (element )

nium automation driving a browser. An alternative approach could use JavaScript to force hidden element interactions. However, we argue that this can lead to unintended client-side states, which we mostly try to avoid (other than injecting XSS payloads). Therefore, the interactable element set includes only currently visible and active elements. To avoid interacting multiple times with the same element, we ignore elements that are already inside a semantic element. For example, we will not click on a span inside a button .As an optimization, we also prioritize elements that are in the current DOM (i.e., have a valid Selenium reference). This allows the scanner to achieve a deeper crawl of the client-side, as opposed to a shallow crawl across the entire application, where elements from different URLs are selected. When picking an element that is not currently active, the scanner will retrace its previous steps. Overall interactable element discovery is described by Algorithm 1. Compared to prior scanners, which are limited to parsing HTML for specific tags, or hooking JavaScript event listeners, our method does not need to model the DOM, and instead uses it directly as rendered by the browser. 

2) Crawling Strategy: After discovering the valid inter-actable elements on a page, our scanner must select an order to interact with these elements. We attempt to prioritize client-side interactions for exploration, aiming to reach deep modern web application states. However, we also need to balance client-side exploration interactions with opportunities to inject exploit payloads, such as form submission and input elements. Finally, the crawler must handle classic exploration with normal static links. Randomization is also important for coverage [11]. To accommodate this our method can, with low probability, randomly pick edges. While this can seem counterintuitive, randomness helps a scanner get unstuck, as there are cases where a scanner can otherwise continuously prioritize a similar element. Therefore, we design a two-phase approach to crawling. The crawler tracks actions possible from states in the web application in a directed graph, where edges and nodes rep-resent actions and states. Actions include following links and interacting with client-side elements and forms. As we crawl, we also prioritize inputs where a payload can be inserted. This crawling strategy allows our scanner to handle step 2⃝ of the motivating example by prioritizing the correct visible and interactive form elements. In the first phase, the scanner performs a short shallow scan, prioritizing finding new linked pages until either a threshold of discovered links is met, or the scanner cannot find any new links. After that phase, the scanner enters its main phase where client-side interactions and payload injections are prioritized. The general prioritization follows three categories (in this order): (1) new actions, (2) active elements on the current page, and (3) input elements. Because we prioritize active elements, the algorithm will act similarly to a DFS strategy. For example, a form (“input”) that is on the current page (“active”) and not taken before (“new”) will have a high priority. To avoid getting stuck in one part of an application (such as the infinite calendar module in WackoPicko [3]), we have two mechanisms to divert the scanner. First, if enough iterations have passed since any new edges have appeared, an active link is chosen randomly instead. If there are also no new forms, we pick a random link with a low probability (5% in the evaluation). Unlike scanners that separate exploration and exploitation, such as ZAP or YuraScanner, our method aims to always pick the best option when presented, and does not need to terminate. 

C. LLM-based Input Generation 

As forms are one of the main ways to provide complex user input to a web application, determining a set of valid inputs that allow a form to be submitted is critical to a web scanner. The constraint validating the content of the numeric “number of hours” in step 3⃝ of the motivating example is in custom JavaScript code rather than a regex pattern. Prior to YuraScanner’s application of LLMs to form solving, previous methods could not expect to reliably detect a pattern while only supporting a small set of possible implementations. 

Large Language Models. We leverage the single- or few-shot ability of LLMs to provide acceptable form inputs, as pioneered by YuraScanner, and adopt their method using few-shot examples [18] and summarizing some important elements of the form. An LLM can reasonably infer that an input described by “number of hours”, from step 3⃝ of the motivating example, should be numeric and in an appropriate range. 

Implementation. When the scanner finds a form it provides the form’s HTML to the LLM form solving module. The LLM is prompted to solve this form, producing a list of (selector, value) pairs to indicate what values should be input to which elements. The scanner then submits the form with these values. Besides the form HTML in the prompt, we also specifically include all input elements, those marked required, and those with regex patterns. Additional details about the implementation and prompt are included in Section D. 

Other Form Adaptations. Finally, before submitting a form we prompt an LLM to check if the form is “dangerous”, and could change the current username or password, to avoid breaking the application. We also use an LLM to determine the correct submit button in a form, as buttons can have wildly different semantics including canceling the submission. We also implement handling for drag-and-drop functionality. If a form supports file upload based on its enctype , we simulate a drag-and-drop to all form elements from a standard list of prepared mock files. 

D. Implementation 

We implement SpiderSapien in Python extending the Black Widow scanner [8]. We implement LLM-facing code in LangChain to be able to easily swap the underlying model. While we have tested this LLM code with versions of Google’s Gemini, OpenAI’s GPT, and local Ollama models, we conduct our evaluation with Gemini, using the 2.5 Flash model, and a temperature of 1.7. Details about the model, temperature, tokens, and cost can be found in Section E. IV. E VALUATION 

We evaluate the entire scanner’s performance, including both improved client-side crawling and LLM form solving, in the task of exploring a web application and discovering XSS vulnerabilities. This scanner evaluation is performed on a set of open-source web applications (Section IV-A) and presented in Section IV-B. Based on this we perform a more detailed comparison with recent state-of-the-art scanners in Section IV-C. We perform a case study with YuraScanner in Section IV-D where we repeat the evaluations and in-vestigate how results differ across two scanning sessions. In Section IV-E we include a novel scanner-agnostic data-driven state-depth analysis. Section IV-F presents a new method for comparing client-side coverage in scanners and compares our method to Black Ostrich. In Section IV-G we evaluate the amount of non-semantic interactable elements our scanner finds. Finally, in Section IV-H we summarize the results of two ablation studies that remove either the LLM form solving or the element detection components, to evaluate the individual contribution from each of the components of our method. These ablation studies are fully described in Section B. 

A. Web Application Crawl Evaluation 

The overall goal of this work is to better explore web applications from a black-box perspective, by successfully navigating client-side interactions to reach new states. By exploring more states in these web applications, we also hope to find new vulnerabilities. To gather relevant performance metrics and analyze vulnerabilities, we compare our crawler’s performance to other relevant state-of-the-art black-box tech-niques on a set of local open-source web applications. Similar to other scanner evaluations [8], [10], [9], [19], [5], we primarily use single runs of (scanner, web application) pairs to compare to prior work. We note that while our goal of improving code coverage to find new vulnerabilities is shared with almost all prior scanning work, not all code is actually security-relevant and discuss this in Section V-B. 1) Open-source Web Applications: We choose 9 open-source web applications for this evaluation: DokuWiki, HotCRP, Kanboard, Leantime, Nextcloud, osCommerce, Pi-wigo, TinyFileManager, and WordPress. We describe these applications and their versions in Section F. These applications are chosen based on their popularity and inclusion in related work. Our selection criteria were collecting PHP web appli-cations from prior work, removing older applications without client-side functionality (e.g., MyBB), then adding additional real and available applications with client-side functionality. We limit the evaluation to PHP applications to allow for uniform collection of server-side coverage. In Table IX, we describe which front-end JS frameworks are used in these applications. While jQuery is used across this set, they also rely on Bootstrap, React, and Vue.js. We strive to include the latest version of modern applications. With the exception of TinyFileManager, a popular single-page application, all other applications are also included in other evaluations. We make slight modifications to these applications to level the playing field for all scanners (standardized by Doup´ e et al. [7]), mainly with respect to authentication; details are provided in Section F. 

2) Compared Black-box Scanners: We evaluate our ap-proach against both state-of-the-art black-box academic and open-source scanners. This set of 6 scanners consists of: Arachni [20], Black Ostrich [12], Wapiti [21], ZAP [22], and the latest EvoCrawl [9] and YuraScanner [10]. When possible, we configure the scanners to only detect XSS vulnerabilities. We exclude Black Widow from this comparison, as Black Ostrich directly extends that scanner with regex-based input validation support. In the case of YuraScanner, we configure it with the same Gemini LLM as SpiderSapien to allow for a fair comparison. All scanners are run for 8 hours for each application. 

3) Metrics: The main metrics we focus on are code cov-erage and the number of XSS vulnerabilities found. For vulnerabilities, we present the number of reports from each scanner after we manually verify reports to filter out false positives. Some scanner’s verifications of injections, including statically searching for script tags or not using unique IDs for payloads, can result in false positives. All vulnerabilities are manually deduplicated based on shared server-side code. In this study, we define coverage in terms of unique lines of code (LoC) executed on the server-side collected using xDebug in PHP, similar to prior work [11], [9], [8]. We note that coverage could be measured differently [5], [11], [23] and discuss this in Section G. 

B. Web Application Crawl Evaluation Results 

While SpiderSapien is able to reach new coverage and program states in the evaluated applications, other scanners can still find things we miss. For example, numerous error states are missed in TinyFileManager. However, SpiderSapien is the only scanner in our evaluation able to create a task in Kanboard in our evaluation, or review a paper in HotCRP. SpiderSapien achieves better server-side coverage in the vast majority of cases. Furthermore, SpiderSapien finds more XSS vulnerabilities, and importantly, across more applications, than all other scanners. In the following sections, we analyze the results of the local web application crawling evaluation in terms of coverage and vulnerabilities. 

1) Coverage: In this section, we present the server-side code coverage from running all the scanners on our set of open-source web applications. In Figures 3 and 4 we plot the comparisons between our scanner and the others, with the exact numbers presented in Section J, and improvement in Table XII. Our method outperforms the other scanners in 7/9 of the evaluated applications, indicating that focusing on client-side crawling does achieve deeper scanning of these applications, even for server-side code. A notable case where another scanner outperforms us is ZAP on TinyFileManager. In this case, ZAP triggers more errors, such as invalid CSRF tokens, which we avoid by correctly retracing the form submissions. We discuss the differences between coverage of intended code versus error code in Section V-B. Furthermore, in Section V-E we discuss using scanners for deeper, longer scans than commonly used in either this or prior evaluations. 

2) Vulnerabilities: Here we present the XSS vulnerabilities found by each scanner. We report the verified vulnerabilities, which we have manually checked. Verifying the vulnerabilities is important, as scanners can mistakenly report safe parts of the application as vulnerable. Across almost all applications, our method finds more XSS vulnerabilities than the other scanners. In total, we find 32 verified XSS vulnerabilities across all applications, compared to 29 for the other scanners (Black Ostrich and EvoCrawl find one duplicate on WordPress). We see that the compared state-of-the-art scanners do not find any XSS vulnerabilities in many of these modern applications. Excluding the 24 vulnerabilities YuraScanner finds in osCom-merce, all other scanners only find 5 XSS in 3 applications. Our method also finds most of these vulnerabilities. An exception is Arachni, which finds two more vulnera-bilities in TinyFileManager. It should be noted that Arachni has a high rate of false positives in this case, because of its imprecise method that reuses a shared payload. After finding one stored vulnerability, all parameters tested afterwards will appear vulnerable. During our manual verification of its 10 reported vulnerabilities, 3 of these were confirmed to be valid. However, we could not determine if Arachni actually found them or happened to mark all parameters after the first successful stored injection. All other scanners consistently use unique payloads, and avoid any false positives. We note that while the other scanners cover thousands of LoC that we miss (see Section IV-B1), they do not find as many vulnerabilities in this code. This might indicate that scanners should focus more on intended or high-quality code coverage, which we discuss in Section V-B. 

C. Recent State-Of-The-Art 

We separately evaluate state-of-the-art scanners EvoCrawl and YuraScanner, comparing coverage and vulnerabilities in osCommerce  Wapiti 

> osCommerce  ZAP
> Piwigo  Wapiti
> HotCRP  Wapiti
> HotCRP  Arachni
> Nextcloud  Wapiti
> HotCRP  ZAP
> Nextcloud  Arachni
> osCommerce  Arachni
> Kanboard  Wapiti
> Piwigo  ZAP
> WordPress  Wapiti
> DokuWiki  Arachni
> Kanboard  Arachni
> Piwigo  Black  Ost.
> Piwigo  Arachni
> Kanboard  Black  Ost.
> HotCRP  Black  Ost.
> Kanboard  ZAP
> TinyFM  Wapiti
> WordPress  ZAP
> osCommerce  Black  Ost.
> TinyFM  Arachni
> Nextcloud  ZAP
> TinyFM  Black  Ost.
> Leantime  Arachni
> WordPress  Arachni
> Leantime  Wapiti
> DokuWiki  Black  Ost.
> WordPress  Black  Ost.
> DokuWiki  Wapiti
> Nextcloud  Black  Ost.
> Leantime  Black  Ost.
> Leantime  ZAP
> DokuWiki  ZAP
> TinyFM  ZAP
> 0%
> 20 %
> 40 %
> 60 %
> 80 %
> 100 %

122

1

22321

2

1

19 3111155135119 

111519 19 

> Our Scanner Common Other scanner

Fig. 3. The X-axis denotes the application and scanner we are comparing against while the Y-axis contains the fraction of unique lines of code the scanners find. Starting from the top it shows the fraction only we find, followed by the fraction of lines of code found by both scanners and finally what only the other scanners find. 

> Piwigo  Evo
> Piwigo  Yura
> HotCRP  Yura
> Kanboard  Yura
> Kanboard  Evo
> HotCRP  Evo
> Leantime  Yura
> TinyFM  Yura
> osCommerce  Yura
> osCommerce  Evo
> WordPress  Yura
> WordPress  Evo
> DokuWiki  Yura
> Nextcloud  Yura
> DokuWiki  Evo
> Nextcloud  Evo
> Leantime  Evo
> TinyFM  Evo
> 0%
> 20 %
> 40 %
> 60 %
> 80 %
> 100 %

12

1

23

1

19 

22 

2

17 1211

1155

> Our Scanner Common Other scanner

Fig. 4. Unique LoC compared between SpiderSapien and the latest SOTA crawlers following the format of Figure 3. 

Figure 4. We improve coverage by 44.24% compared to the union of EvoCrawl and YuraScanner. We also find more unique LoC across all evaluated applications. Still, both EvoCrawl and YuraScanner find thousands of LoC that we miss. Notably, in deeper applications like HotCRP (with func-tionality for reviewing papers dependent on submitting a paper first), we perform better than YuraScanner. This can be due to YuraScanner’s task-solving missing dependent functionality (see Section C). We note that the novel element detection of SpiderSapien leads to its much improved performance on Piwigo. 

TABLE I THIS TABLE PRESENTS THE verified XSS INJECTIONS FROM THE SCANNERS . W E DISCUSS ARACHNI ’S FP S (*) IN SECTION IV-B2. W APITI AND ZAP ARE EXCLUDED AS THEY REPORT NO XSS. Scanner Arachni Black Ostrich SpiderSapien YuraScanner EvoCrawl DokuWiki 0 0 0 0 0HotCRP 0 0 1 0 0Kanboard 0 0 1 0 0Leantime 0 0 2 0 0Nextcloud 0 0 0 0 0osCommerce 0 0 19 24 1Piwigo 0 0 5 0 0TinyFileManager 3∗ 0 1 0 0WordPress 0 1 3 0 1

SpiderSapien finds the most XSS across the most applica-tions, showcasing a general improvement across these diverse applications. While YuraScanner performs better than Spider-Sapien on osCommerce, this is the only application where they find any XSS. This could be due to a biased set of evaluated applications, but the results are mirrored in YuraScanner’s own evaluated applications [10]. Moreover, while EvoCrawl has high coverage on osCommerce, it only finds one vulnerability. This highlights the importance of interacting in a security-relevant manner. 

D. Repeated Evaluation Case Study 

We perform a limited case study of repeated runs for both SpiderSapien and YuraScanner. While a single extra run does not provide statistical significance it can still provide valuable insights. 

Coverage. In Table II we present the coverage achieved by both runs for SpiderSapien and YuraScanner. Most results are relatively close, with a difference of about 10% compared TABLE II COVERAGE RESULTS FOR THE REPEATED EVALUATION OF SPIDER SAPIEN AND YURA SCANNER . W E PRESENT THE MAX AND MIN COVERAGE ACHIEVED , AS WELL AS THE UNION OF BOTH RUNS .Scanner SpiderSapien YuraScanner Application Max Min Union Max Min Union DokuWiki 18 686 18 632 19 342 18 249 16 048 18 354 HotCRP 36 429 36 125 37 848 15 233 13 025 16 356 Kanboard 16 770 16 668 17 060 6 292 4 263 6 494 Leantime 29 918 29 262 30 592 21 715 19 255 22 357 Nextcloud 67 599 64 854 68 623 60 335 57 717 64 005 osCommerce 126 361 121 048 132 901 91 575 84 268 99 675 Piwigo 50 996 28 121 52 808 17 075 15 765 18 161 TinyFileManager 1 446 1 423 1 454 1 064 958 1 107 WordPress 59 732 58 937 62 017 43 654 28 625 45 723 

to the max. However, there are some notable exceptions, including Piwigo where SpiderSapien manages to destroy the state by attempting to update the entire web application, and breaking it. We note that SpiderSapien is the only scanner that reaches this point in the application and discuss it in Section V-C. By comparing the union of the two runs to the max we can learn more about how saturated the scanner is on a particular application—are the same parts of the application being explored? For example, on TinyFileManager the same code is exercised, while on osCommerce both scanners un-cover thousands of new lines of code between the runs. This indicates that running the scanner multiple times or for longer periods on TinyFileManager will have less of an effect than doing the same on osCommerce. 

Vulnerabilities. The vulnerabilities found in the repeated evaluation are mostly the same. YuraScanner finds 11 vul-nerabilities, all in osCommerce, with 8 XSS also found by YuraScanner in the main evaluation. On osCommerce, Spider-Sapien finds 17 vulnerabilities, compared to 19 in the main evaluation, with an overlap of 12. This indicates that while both scanners are relatively stable on osCommerce, running each scanner for longer periods or multiple times could reduce false negatives, as we discuss in Section V-E. SpiderSapien finds 31 XSS across 6 applications in the repeated run, missing a Kanboard vulnerability. While Spi-derSapien is able to find and submit the correct vulnerable form, it does not resubmit it with a payload. We suspect this was because of a timeout in the retracing. On Piwigo, SpiderSapien only finds 2 XSS in this run, most likely due to the state-destroying action of updating the application. However, this run performed better on Leantime, finding 9 XSS as opposed to 2 in the initial run. All 7 new XSS come from the same XSS-vulnerable form. Upon inspection, the first run misses this due to randomness in navigation. In the first run, SpiderSapien updates the current username, then the LLM detects the form as “dangerous” and skips it. In the second run, the form is filled out first, and the LLM does not see it as dangerous. 

E. State Depth Case Study 

We not only aim to increase coverage and vulnerabilities found, but to achieve this by reaching deeper states in the application, a goal shared with YuraScanner. Therefore, we perform a limited case study on the states of two smaller applications, and compare against the latest EvoCrawl and YuraScanner. However, as state depth is not well-defined for scanners, we first define a metric. YuraScanner uses trace length, in terms of steps/actions, as a proxy for state depth. However, there are some natural properties for state depth that should be satisfied, which trace length does not: 

Properties of state depth. State depth ( D) should consider the application’s state before any action is taken. If, for example, the scanner is already logged in, logging in another time does not increase D. State depth should be consistent across a given trace. If a set of actions is repeated, such as logging in and out, this should not increase D. Finally, state depth should be consistent across all traces for the application. D should measure the shortest path length, in terms of actions, to particular states. Ideally, the shortest path would be calculated from all possible interactions with the web application. When working with the real traces, state depth can at least be consistent among all of the scanner traces. 

Event traces. We define events as the execution of source files (e.g., index.php ) or lines within them (e.g., 

(index.php, 6) ). Alternatively, an annotated set can be provided by a developer or security analyst, describing which of these source files or lines is relevant. From coverage logs, we observe how each server-side request made by the scanner results in the execution of a set of events. The first execution of each of these events forms a trace of the states a given scanning run reaches. HotCRP’s developers annotate which source files corre-spond to ‘pages’ and their parts by a leading comment matching the regex: ˆ//.*\.php -- HotCRP (.+)page$ .TinyFileManager requires more granular annotations, due to its implementation in a single PHP source file. We generated LoC-level state event annotations with manual code analysis, and the results are included in Section K. 

State graphs. State graphs are inferred using the evidence from traces about relationships between events. Each event forms a node in the state graph. We make these graphs in three steps. First, we make a happens-before graph that relates each event in these traces. If, across all traces, event A always happens before B, then edge A →B is formed. Second, edge A →B is only kept if there are no common events that always occur between A and B. A →B will be kept if the set of traces only shows different events in between the two: [[A,C,B], [A,D,B]], or even [[A,B], [A,C,B]]. Otherwise, A→B will be removed if there is always event C between them: [[A,C,B], [A,C,D,B]]. Third, the graph can be simplified: If an event always happens with another event, these nodes can be merged. Upward edges from nodes of greater depth to nodes of lesser depth can be pruned. The resulting state graph contains the TABLE III SCANNER STATE DEPTHS ON HOT CRP AND TINY FILE MANAGER . T HE MAX DEPTH (max( D)), AVERAGE TERMINATING DEPTH ( ¯D), AND TOTAL NUMBER OF STATES (S) ARE REPORTED .Scanner HotCRP TinyFileManager                                                      

> max( D)¯DSmax( D)¯DS
> Arachni 21.38 13 43.05 75 Black Ostrich 42.80 100 33.00 52 EvoCrawl 32.90 80 43.05 75 SpiderSapien 43.14 121 43.11 97 Wapiti 21.38 13 42.95 74 YuraScanner 32.21 53 32.93 39 ZAP 21.75 23 53.61 101 All scanners 43.14 121 53.61 119

shortest paths to relevant events for particular application states. 

State depth. In Table III we summarize the deepest states each scanner achieves in HotCRP and TinyFileManager. We also report the average terminating depth and the number of states found by each scanner. Average terminating depth is defined as the mean length of paths to the deepest, termi-nating states found by that scanner. This excludes paths to intermediary states, to quantify how deep each scanner gets in application functionality. Notably, in HotCRP SpiderSapien discovers all states that any scanner finds. 

HotCRP states. In Figure 5 we visualize the state graph of HotCRP using the earlier page definition, and compare SpiderSapien with the latest EvoCrawl and YuraScanner. In this graph, each scanner starts by requesting the home page (index.php ). Requests are funneled by HotCRP through code that broadly applies across pages (e.g., delegation, JSON API access). At depth 2, we have states available in a single action after the home page. These include settings, help, or starting a paper submission. All three compared scanners reach these states, except EvoCrawl missing the help page. After these nodes, we start seeing deep application functionality at depth 3. In particular, the graph’s right-hand side shows the states unlocked after a paper is submitted, including various ways to assign reviews for this submission. YuraScanner misses many of these nodes, as it never completes a paper submission. Finally, at depth 4, there are only states reached by SpiderSapien. Most notably, we have the actual paper review page, and drawing the review preference graph. 

TinyFileManager states. In Section K we visualize the state graph of TinyFileManager using our manual annotations of relevant LoC. YuraScanner again performs worst, EvoCrawl improves substantially, and SpiderSapien does slightly better than both. Surprisingly, ZAP reaches states that other scanners miss. In this case, ZAP’s simple heuristics succeed due to their tendency to avoid unnecessary fields and accept default values. Due to the simplicity of this application, our manual annota-tions include all relevant states in the application. Therefore, we can measure how scanners are performing against ground truth . There is substantial room for improvement: only 16/39 of these states are reached by any scanner. 

Limitations. The core limitation of our state depth defi-nition is in the quality of the set of traces to generate the graph. If scanners fail to explore different paths through the application, and do not overlap in what states they discover, the graph will overestimate which prior states are necessary for later ones. We attempt to increase the quality of our set of traces by adding more scanner runs, which are otherwise not included in the evaluation. Future work could also integrate traces from test suites or users. 

F. Client-side Coverage 

As modern web applications rely heavily on JavaScript we make a first attempt to report on the client-side coverage 

achieved by our scanner. This goes beyond the efforts of previous works that focused server-side coverage, or coarse-grained network fetches of JS scripts [11]. Using the built-in profiler in Chrome’s DevTools [24] we collect byte-level coverage metrics in our scanner. As the profiler resets when a document is unloaded, we collect coverage both before and after each action. Our analysis is limited to scripts that have a URL to ensure the code comes from the web application, as opposed to scripts injected by the scanner. This entails that we lack coverage data for anonymous functions and code inside eval s. Furthermore, we deduplicate scripts by their content hash. Therefore, the same script loaded on different pages will be counted as the same script. To better understand how our coverage compares with another scanner, we modify Black Ostrich to collect client-side coverage. Note that in general it is not trivial to add this coverage collection as it requires knowledge of where in the scanner’s code actions are performed. Additionally, it also requires the scanner to use Chrome. As Black Ostrich uses both Chrome and a similar crawling loop to our method, it is suitable for a comparison. In Table X we present a comparison between SpiderSapien and Black Ostrich. The table contains both the byte-level coverage achieved by the scanners and total bytes from all loaded scripts, as reported by the Chrome profiler. As is evident, SpiderSapien performs better across all applications. SpiderSapien’s coverage improvements range from 5% on Kanboard to 1020% on Piwigo, with an average of 287%. While we cover a majority of the bytes (65%), there is still room for future improvement. At the same time, it is important to note that the total number of loaded bytes can contain dead or unreachable code. 

G. Non-semantic Interactable Elements 

Based on the scanner logs from SpiderSapien we calculate the number of unique interactable elements we find and, of those, the number of non-semantic ones. While no definitive list of semantically interactable tags exists, we based ours on the ones defined in EvoCrawl 1. In Table XI we present both the number of elements we find and the number of non-semantic tags per application. Some applications have notably                                                        

> 1Elements of interest in EvoCrawl: input, button, textarea, select, a.automatic paper assignment paper review display/edit chair's conflict assignment JSON API access +deadline reporting +delegation help paper search paper view and edit people listing/editing profile management chair-only settings +settings >... (8 setting pages) settings >info account merging bulk paper assignment buzzer chair's paper assignment offline review management per-paper assignment/ conflict management procrastination graph +review form definition review preference global settings settings >messages settings >tags >colors settings >users action log review preference graph drawing document download home

Fig. 5. In HotCRP, SpiderSapien finds all pages in this state graph of pages. Both EvoCrawl and YuraScanner find red. EvoCrawl can also find purple, while YuraScanner can also find blue. Green are only found by SpiderSapien. 

more non-semantic elements and tags (e.g., Nextcloud and osCommerce). Across all applications we find thousands of non-semantic elements that scanners using a purely semantic selection method would miss. We note that <li> tags are popular for menus while <span> and <label> are common for small clickable icons, for example a plus sign for adding. 

H. Ablation Study Results 

We perform two ablation studies to determine the effects of the LLM-powered form solving and element discovery methods used in SpiderSapien. SS -LLM +ELM removes LLM form solving, while SS -ELM +LLM removes the improved interactable el-ement discovery method. We describe the setup and results in more detail in Section B, and summarize the main findings here. 

Coverage. On average, adding the LLM or element discov-ery method improves coverage by 42% and 32% respectively. For applications that require solving complex forms early, such as Kanboard, HotCRP, and Leantime, the LLM method shows a clear benefit. For applications like osCommerce there is a smaller difference in coverage, which we discuss in Sec-tion V-D. The SS -ELM +LLM version also performs worse because the scanner cannot accurately detect elements. Piwigo’s label 

tag buttons are not found by SS -ELM +LLM , leading to a decrease in coverage, even compared to SS -LLM +ELM .

Vulnerabilities. The ablated SS -LLM +ELM finds 28 XSS across 4 applications, while the SS -ELM +LLM ablation finds 27 XSS across 3 applications. We note a large overlap of 13 vulnerabilities between SpiderSapien and the ablated SS -LLM +ELM , and 15 with 

SS -ELM +LLM . Neither ablated version finds XSS in as many ap-plications as SpiderSapien. While both ablations find many vulnerabilities in osCommerce, their XSS count is further in-flated by a single form in Leantime with 7 XSS vulnerabilities. Adding more time or repeated runs is helpful to minimize false negatives as discussed in Section V-E, and these are discovered by SpiderSapien in Section IV-D V. A NALYSIS / D ISCUSSION 

A. The Future of Black-box Crawling 

The latest generation of crawlers has focused on improving their crawling strategy with machine learning [9], [25] and sometimes LLMs specifically [26], [10]. Our method and results are complementary with these approaches. LLM form solving and interactable element detection are two building blocks that can improve these and future work. Based on our results, form solving with LLMs should replace prior heuristics, and our novel interactable element detection pro-vides more accurate identification than prior methods. At the same time, our relatively simple crawling strategy could be improved by these approaches’ adaptability to workflows. However, researchers must carefully evaluate the perfor-mance of black-box LLMs at crawling. Our results show that LLMs, including smaller models, are already adept at the task of form solving. At the same time, our evaluation shows that a fully-LLM approach in YuraScanner performs worse overall. This could be due to the single-pass setup of their task solver (see Section C), but also could be due to the abstract page representation the LLM operates on. The interactable element detection we propose can improve future page abstractions by accurately identifying actions on the page. 

B. Exploring Intended Code Paths 

One goal of our approach was to improve the exploration of what can be seen as “intended code paths”—paths in the application that the developer expects a user to follow. Note that this is opposed to the classic goal of “fuzzing” the application with unintended values to find error-related code paths. We believe that current web scanners focus too much on these unintended paths, and thus they fail to explore much of the application’s deeper functionality (and, in turn, miss vulnerabilities). Therefore, simply using total server-side code coverage as a metric for performance can be misleading, because it includes non-security-relevant code in unintended paths. For example, Section IV-B1 shows that ZAP has similar total coverage on TinyFileManager compared to our approach. However, part of ZAP’s unique coverage is due to discovering error-handling code relating to incorrect CSRF tokens, because ZAP fuzzes all request parameters on the HTTP level. In contrast, our method intentionally submits the form success-fully with valid tokens, avoiding some unintended paths. SpiderSapien still incorporates randomness and injects XSS payloads, triggering unexpected behaviors and error states. We cannot claim either method of exploration is strictly superior. If anything, our results suggest that the research community should explore a combined approach or use of multiple scanners to ensure thorough security testing of mod-ern web applications. As shown in Section IV-E, much of the functionality in web applications is still unexplored. 

C. State Destruction 

A surprising problem we faced as scanners improve is their increased potential to break the application. SpiderSapien performs relatively poorly on Piwigo in the repeated eval-uation (see Section IV-D). This is because our method is the only system that finds an update mechanism that breaks the application, creating an irrecoverable program state. A similar problem has also been encountered by YuraScanner, when they delete their user in the web application [10]. While our crawler can sometimes avoid state-destroying actions (see Section III-C), such as in DokuWiki where the scanner was prevented from removing the current user, future research could try to improve avoiding dangerous actions. Future methods could use an LLM approach similar to ours or by allowing the scanner to reset the application such as Enemy of the State [3], using heuristics to detect breakage [19]. 

D. osCommerce Coverage 

While our method generally improves coverage, we still miss thousands of lines of code on osCommerce, that both the latest SOTA, EvoCrawl and YuraScanner (Table XIV), and our ablated versions, SS -LLM +ELM and SS -ELM +LLM , find. This performance difference can be attributed to osCommerce having a large, primarily shallow and broad surface. Multiple scans tend to cover different parts of this application. This favors BFS-like strategies in the limited evaluation time, rather than our navigation strategy which is closer to a DFS for deep crawling. Still, even if a scanner has a DFS-like strategy, if the scanner cannot solve forms that limit deeper navigation, such as SS -LLM +ELM , the resulting behavior tends toward BFS. Similarly, if the scanner cannot detect the interactable elements necessary for deeper navigation, it also tends toward BFS. 

E. False Negatives and Length of Scan 

During development SpiderSapien found vulnerabilities that were not reproduced in the evaluation. Similarly, the multiple runs compared to the ablations and the latest state-of-the-art EvoCrawl and YuraScanner find different sets of vulner-abilities. We still report these to the developers for ethical reasons. Our scanner still supports each interaction necessary to find these additional vulnerabilities. We believe that the final scan did not find them due to two practical limits: (1) evaluation time limit of 8 hours, and (2) we destroy the application state (Section V-C). There is no consensus on the evaluation time for web scanning, with times ranging from 4 hours [10] to 24 hours [9]. Interestingly, academic scanners show potential to continue increasing coverage after 8 hours. With the scanner’s additional randomness, a longer evaluation could lead to increased code coverage. Future studies should ideally incorporate both multiple runs and longer evaluation times. Nextcloud and DokuWiki are noteworthy for having zero vulnerabilities found across all scanners. Nextcloud, to our knowledge, does not have any false negatives. However, man-ual analysis of DokuWiki reveals that a relatively simple XSS exists in the configuration form. This form contains multiple server-side validations that make it difficult to solve the entire form. For example, while SpiderSapien provides the correct type of data, e.g., a path for a folder, the server also checks that this folder exists. The entire form becomes increasingly difficult to successfully submit when needing to combine valid values with XSS payloads. However, a partial form attack 

where only one element is updated, e.g., the title, would successfully submit the form with a payload. This could be an interesting avenue for future scanners to explore. 

F. Exploitability of Vulnerabilities 

Scanners generally do not consider exploitability, e.g., a payload resulting in JavaScript execution but is also pro-tected by CSP, CSRF, samesite cookies, or only allowed by administrators (self-XSS). As scanners use valid admin accounts and CSRF tokens they are not affected by these countermeasures as a real attacker would be. We define a vulnerability as exploitable if it allows a user to expand their set of permissions to gain additional privileges. In total, we find that 26 out of the 32 XSS vulnerabilities are exploitable. Kanboard is protected by CSP but they have previously fixed XSS regardless [27]. In Piwigo, permissions prevent one of the vulnerabilities from being exploitable because only the superuser (webmaster) can change the gallery title. Three reflected XSS are protected by CSRF, but the last one is stored and does not require webmaster privileges. 

Disclosure. We have disclosed all vulnerabilities and we are happy to report that Kanboard has already fixed the vulnerability we found and TinyFileManager is working on a fix. The WordPress case is more complex, as their developers consider both the administrator and editor roles to be trusted and thus won’t fix it. We are still awaiting responses from Leantime, osCommerce, and Piwigo. VI. R ELATED WORK 

Static Analysis. Static analysis of application source code has been applied [28], [29], [30] to detect various vulner-abilities. Dahse et al. [28] analyze PHP to find stateful second-order vulnerabilities by examining dataflows. Huang et al. [30] find file upload vulnerabilities in PHP with symbolic analysis. Fang et al. [29] adapt dataflow analysis to use deep learning. Restler [31] analyzes only a REST API specification. ReactAppScan [32] targets React single-page applications with abstract interpretation. With our general approach, we can also detect and interact with React elements. While the applications in the evaluation mostly do not use React, we can add and mark notes as completed in the TodoMVC React example [16]. In general, black-box dynamic approaches inherently produce fewer false positives and offer precise support for dynamic language features across languages and frameworks. 

Grey-box Fuzzing. Grey-box web fuzzing [33], [34], [35] typically instruments server-side code to provide coverage feedback to the fuzzing engine. Trickel et al. [35] apply this to detect SQL and command injection. This approach is limited to single-shot reflected injection vulnerabilities. While the fuzzer can induce application changes, this approach does not reason about states. Gauthier et al. [34] abstract web applications into REST models, and then use a black-box fuzzer on Node.JS applications. G¨ uler et al. [36] add bug oracles to provide feedback in an instrumented PHP interpreter. In contrast, our approach aims to instead generate structured inputs by correctly interacting with the client-side interface. 

Black-box Scanners. CrawlJax [4] infers a state flow graph, including support for client-side UI changes. This has since been incorporated into the ZAP scanner, and is therefore included in our evaluation. Enemy of the State [3] introduces another scanner that can model server-side state. j ¨ Ak [5] improves detection of possible interactions, such as events, network APIs, and dynamic URLs and forms, through dynamic analysis of JavaScript code. This analysis through event registration hooking is reused in Black Widow [8], together with navigation modeling with traversing and tracking inter-state dependencies. In this paper we evaluate Spider-Sapien against Black Ostrich, which extends Black Widow’s input validation support. Our approach improves the crawler’s core navigation modeling, crawling strategy, and form han-dling increasing both coverage and vulnerability detection. EvoCrawl [9] utilizes evolutionary search to crawl modern applications. Their approach improves code coverage and form submissions, as the evolutionary search can improve their navigation strategy. However, the discovery of interactable elements is limited to a predefined set of tags. Our method’s interactable element discovery could improve their evolution-ary crawler’s performance. LOAD-AND-ACT [37] improves client-side coverage to find vulnerabilities in a single page, as opposed to entire applications. Their element discovery improves on j ¨ Ak by removing non-interactable elements using WebDriver [38]. However, this still misses framework elements that use global event listeners on the body. Reinforcement Learning (RL) based scanners such as the recent work by Cazzaro et al. [25] are intriguing. However, we do not include this scanner in our evaluation as its source code is not published. ReScan [39] is a middleware that aims to enhance any scanner by clustering URLs and prerendering the DOM. This is helpful for older scanners like w3af that do not support JavaScript. 

Creating Database State. SynthDB [40] prepares database-backed PHP web applications for security testing by synthesiz-ing a database after collecting constraints with concolic exe-cution. Spider-Scents [19] find portions of XSS vulnerabilities by directly inserting payloads into the database. In contrast, we attempt to create application state, including the database, with the client-side interface. 

LLMs for Security Scanning. YuraScanner [10] leverages an LLM for task-driven scanning. The LLM helps define and execute tasks and workflows, such that deeper states can be scanned for vulnerabilities. Their task-driven approach with a goal-based agent is a departure from the more typical crawler approach we assume, and can therefore have complementary results. Yoon et al. [41] apply LLM agents to fetch interactable elements for task goals in Android applications. Future web crawlers could align with the approach of ScreenAI [42], where a vision language model identifies UI elements like search bars. Hoyen [26] is another recent work that uses an LLM for both the navigation strategy and form solving in a black-box scanner. Their use of an LLM to predict user intention aligns with our own goal of exploring intended code paths. However, we do not evaluate this scanner as its source code has not been published yet. 

Input Validation. Black Ostrich [12] focuses on input validation by solving regexes with SMT. ExpoSE [43] is a symbolic execution engine for JS that can solve regex-based constraints. FormWhisperer [44] uses symbolic analysis of HTML and JS that extracts and solves constraints on form inputs, including between form fields. In contrast, we solve forms with diverse input validation approaches. However, these approaches are complementary in that regex solving could provide an input for the LLM, or vice versa. VII. C ONCLUSION 

Our work showcases the challenges modern web applica-tions pose for state-of-the-art black-box scanners. To combat these challenges and help developers secure their applications, we develop a novel method to better interact with these applications. Our method achieves immersive interaction by improving detection of interactable elements and ordering interactions with these elements, while using an LLM-based approach to tackle the diverse input validations in forms. We implement this method in our scanner SpiderSapien and evaluate it on 9 web applications. Our results show improve-ment in both coverage and vulnerability detection, with an average increase in coverage of 16% compared to the union of all scanners, and a total of 32 XSS vulnerabilities across 7 applications. REFERENCES [1] M. Zalewski, “Skipfish,” 2015. [Online]. Available: https://code.google. com/p/skipfish/ [2] w3af, http://w3af.org, 2023. [3] A. Doup´ e, L. Cavedon, C. Kruegel, and G. Vigna, “Enemy of the state: A state-aware black-box web vulnerability scanner,” in USENIX Security Symposium . USENIX Association, 2012, pp. 523–538. [4] A. Mesbah, E. Bozdag, and A. van Deursen, “Crawling AJAX by inferring user interface state changes,” in ICWE . IEEE Computer Society, 2008, pp. 122–134. [5] G. Pellegrino, C. Tsch¨ urtz, E. Bodden, and C. Rossow, “j¨ ak: Using dynamic analysis to crawl and test modern web applications,” in RAID ,ser. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 9404. Springer, 2015, pp. 295–316. [6] Why Software Is Eating the World, https://a16z.com/ why-software-is-eating-the-world/, 2021. [7] A. Doup´ e, M. Cova, and G. Vigna, “Why johnny can’t pentest: An analysis of black-box web vulnerability scanners,” in DIMVA , ser. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 6201. Springer, 2010, pp. 111–131. [8] B. Eriksson, G. Pellegrino, and A. Sabelfeld, “Black widow: Blackbox data-driven web scanning,” in SP . IEEE, 2021, pp. 1125–1142. [9] X. Guo, A. Kawlay, E. Liu, and D. Lie, “Evocrawl: Exploring web application code and state using evolutionary search,” in NDSS . The Internet Society, 2025. [10] A. Stafeev, T. Recktenwald, G. D. Stefano, S. Khodayari, and G. Pelle-grino, “Yurascanner: Leveraging llms for task-driven web app scanning,” in NDSS . The Internet Society, 2025. [11] A. Stafeev and G. Pellegrino, “Sok: State of the krawlers - evaluating the effectiveness of crawling algorithms for web security measurements,” in 

USENIX Security Symposium . USENIX Association, 2024. [12] B. Eriksson, A. Stjerna, R. D. Masellis, P. R¨ ummer, and A. Sabelfeld, “Black ostrich: Web application scanning with string solvers,” in CCS .ACM, 2023, pp. 549–563. [13] Arachni, “arachni ui form.rb,” https://github.com/Arachni/arachni/blob/ 8e5c5d0a9fd6c5555bc3bbf411c8fa411f12b6db/lib/arachni/element/ui form.rb#L19C26-L19C31, 2023. [14] Firefox code to identify elements associated with events by frameworks, https://github.com/mozilla/gecko-dev/blob/ 80a3d06820b31e1d95beb582f15e789cda9f6e03/devtools/server/actors/ inspector/event-collector.js, 2019. [15] World Wide Web Consortium, “Css basic user interface module level 3 (css3 ui),” https://drafts.csswg.org/css-ui-3/#valdef-cursor-pointer, 2023. [16] A. Osmani, “Todomvc,” https://todomvc.com/, 2023. [17] MDN, https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Reference/ Global attributes/tabindex, 2025. [18] T. B. Brown, B. Mann, N. Ryder, M. Subbiah, J. Kaplan, P. Dhariwal, A. Neelakantan, P. Shyam, G. Sastry, A. Askell, S. Agarwal, A. Herbert-Voss, G. Krueger, T. Henighan, R. Child, A. Ramesh, D. M. Ziegler, J. Wu, C. Winter, C. Hesse, M. Chen, E. Sigler, M. Litwin, S. Gray, B. Chess, J. Clark, C. Berner, S. McCandlish, A. Radford, I. Sutskever, and D. Amodei, “Language models are few-shot learners,” in NeurIPS ,2020. [19] E. Olsson, B. Eriksson, A. Doup´ e, and A. Sabelfeld, “Spider-scents: Grey-box database-aware web scanning for stored XSS,” in USENIX Security Symposium . USENIX Association, 2024. [20] Arachni, https://www.arachni-scanner.com, 2023. [21] Wapiti, https://wapiti-scanner.github.io, 2024. [22] OWASP ZAP, https://www.zaproxy.org, 2023. [23] Z. Kang, S. Li, and Y. Cao, “Probe the proto: Measuring client-side prototype pollution vulnerabilities of one million real-world websites,” in NDSS . The Internet Society, 2022. [24] Chrome DevTools Protocol - Profiler domain, https://chromedevtools. github.io/devtools-protocol/tot/Profiler/, 2026. [25] L. Cazzaro, S. Calzavara, M. Kovalkov, A. Stafeev, and G. Pellegrino, “Less is more: Boosting coverage of web crawling through adversarial multi-armed bandit,” in DSN . IEEE, 2025, pp. 183–192. [26] W. Wang, Y. Zhang, K. Liang, G. Xu, H. Bai, Q. Yan, X. Zheng, and B. Wu, “Unlocking user-oriented pages: Intention-driven black-box scanner for real-world web applications,” CoRR , vol. abs/2504.20801, 2025. [27] Kanboard XSS fix, https://github.com/kanboard/kanboard/commit/ 3824e6e9aa29017e96caae10670546db85dd9ed7, 2023. [28] J. Dahse and T. Holz, “Static detection of second-order vulnerabilities in web applications,” in USENIX Security Symposium . USENIX Association, 2014, pp. 989–1003. [29] Y. Fang, S. Han, C. Huang, and R. Wu, “Tap: A static analysis model for php vulnerabilities based on token and deep learning technology,” 

PloS one , vol. 14, no. 11, p. e0225196, 2019. [30] J. Huang, Y. Li, J. Zhang, and R. Dai, “Uchecker: Automatically detecting php-based unrestricted file upload vulnerabilities,” in DSN .IEEE, 2019, pp. 581–592. [31] V. Atlidakis, P. Godefroid, and M. Polishchuk, “Restler: stateful REST API fuzzing,” in ICSE . IEEE / ACM, 2019, pp. 748–758. [32] Z. Guo, M. Kang, V. N. Venkatakrishnan, R. Gjomemo, and Y. Cao, “Reactappscan: Mining react application vulnerabilities via component graph,” in CCS . ACM, 2024, pp. 585–599. [33] O. van Rooij, M. A. Charalambous, D. Kaizer, M. Papaevripides, and E. Athanasopoulos, “webfuzz: Grey-box fuzzing for web applications,” in ESORICS (1) , ser. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 12972. Springer, 2021, pp. 152–172. [34] F. Gauthier, B. Hassanshahi, B. Selwyn-Smith, T. N. Mai, M. Schl¨ uter, and M. Williams, “Backrest: A model-based feedback-driven greybox fuzzer for web applications,” CoRR , vol. abs/2108.08455, 2021. [35] E. Trickel, F. Pagani, C. Zhu, L. Dresel, G. Vigna, C. Kruegel, R. Wang, T. Bao, Y. Shoshitaishvili, and A. Doup´ e, “Toss a fault to your witcher: Applying grey-box coverage-guided mutational fuzzing to detect SQL and command injection vulnerabilities,” in SP . IEEE, 2023, pp. 2658– 2675. [36] E. G¨ uler, S. Schumilo, M. Schloegel, N. Bars, P. G¨ orz, X. Xu, C. Kay-gusuz, and T. Holz, “Atropos: Effective fuzzing of web applications for server-side vulnerabilities,” in USENIX Security Symposium . USENIX Association, 2024. [37] N. Weidmann, T. Barber, and C. Wressnegger, “Load-and-act: Increasing page coverage of web applications,” in ISC , ser. Lecture Notes in Computer Science. Springer, 2023, pp. 163–182. [38] S. Stewart and D. Burns, “WebDriver. W3C working draft,” 2022. [Online]. Available: https://www.w3.org/TR/webdriver2/ [39] K. Drakonakis, S. Ioannidis, and J. Polakis, “Rescan: A middleware framework for realistic and robust black-box web application scanning,” in NDSS . The Internet Society, 2023. [40] A. Chen, J. Lee, B. Chaulagain, Y. Kwon, and K. H. Lee, “Synthdb: Synthesizing database via program analysis for security testing of web applications,” in NDSS . The Internet Society, 2023. [41] J. Yoon, R. Feldt, and S. Yoo, “Autonomous large language model agents enabling intent-driven mobile GUI testing,” CoRR , vol. abs/2311.08649, 2023. [42] G. Baechler, S. Sunkara, M. Wang, F. Zubach, H. Mansoor, V. Etter, V. Carbune, J. Lin, J. Chen, and A. Sharma, “Screenai: A vision-language model for UI and infographics understanding,” in IJCAI .ijcai.org, 2024, pp. 3058–3068. [43] B. Loring, D. Mitchell, and J. Kinder, “Sound regular expression semantics for dynamic symbolic execution of javascript,” CoRR , vol. abs/1810.05661, 2018. [44] B. Karthein, C. Staicu, and A. Zeller, “A generalized approach for solving web form constraints,” in ASE . ACM, 2024, pp. 2460–2461. [45] M. D. Bailey, D. Dittrich, E. Kenneally, and D. Maughan, “The menlo report,” IEEE Secur. Priv. , vol. 10, no. 2, pp. 71–75, 2012. [46] Gemini LLM API pricing, https://cloud.google.com/vertex-ai/ generative-ai/pricing, 2025. 

APPENDIX 

A. Ethical Considerations 

By actively scanning only our local clones of these ap-plications in a controlled environment, we avoid any harm caused by scanners on the web. We are handling the discovered security vulnerabilities in accordance with the best practices of ethics in security [45]. We have reported our findings to the affected vendors, following coordinated vulnerability disclosure for all discovered vulnerabilities. We will include any additional responses from vendors in the final paper. B. Ablation Study Details 

Here, we present details of the two ablation studies to determine the effects of the LLM-powered form solving and element discovery methods used in SpiderSapien, previously summarized in Section IV-H. The LLM-ablated version SS -LLM +ELM 

instead uses the standard form input method from the un-derlying Black Widow scanner. Black Widow, and therefore 

SS -LLM +ELM , apply heuristics based on input types, similar to ZAP. The element-ablated version SS -ELM +LLM instead reverts back to the element discovery of Black Widow. The Black Widow scanner relies on semantic elements and JavaScript event listeners, similar to YuraScanner and j ¨ Ak. We evaluate both ablations on the same applications and metrics. 

Coverage. In Table IV we present the coverage achieved by both SpiderSapien and the ablated versions SS -LLM +ELM and 

SS -ELM +LLM . On average, adding the LLM or element discovery method improves coverage by 42% and 32% respectively. While SpiderSapien outperforms SS -LLM +ELM and SS -ELM +LLM , there are notable differences in their relative performance. We start by contrasting SpiderSapien and SS -LLM +ELM , presented in Table IV, to show when advanced form solving is necessary. For applications that require solving complex forms early, such as Kanboard, HotCRP, and Leantime, the LLM method shows a clear benefit. Coverage is otherwise limited, as a scanner cannot create a project and task in Kanboard or Leantime, or submit a paper in HotCRP. We also note that using an LLM to find the correct submission buttons in forms (see Section III-C) helps in cases such as TinyFileManager where the first button is atypically used for “cancel”. For applications like osCommerce there is a smaller difference in coverage, which we discuss in Section V-D. The SS -ELM +LLM version also generally performs worse than Spi-derSapien because the scanner is not able to detect elements, and is mistakenly detecting non-interactable elements. For ex-ample, Piwigo use label tags for buttons and define the event listener on the body, using jQuery, instead of on the element. Therefore, the SS -ELM +LLM does not find it, leading to a decrease in coverage, even compared to SS -LLM +ELM . Furthermore, as the previous method for detecting elements does not consider whether they are hidden or occluded, the ablated version often tries to interact with elements in the wrong state, resulting in decreased coverage. For example, clicking a submenu item before opening the menu. 

Vulnerabilities. The ablated SS -LLM +ELM finds 28 XSS across 4 applications. We note a large overlap of 13 vulnerabilities between SpiderSapien and the ablated SS -LLM +ELM . Similarly for 

SS -ELM +LLM , this ablation finds 27 XSS across 3 applications with an overlap of 15. While both ablations find many vulnera-bilities in osCommerce, their XSS count is further inflated by a single form in Leantime with 7 XSS vulnerabilities. There is no theoretical reason that prevents SpiderSapien from finding these. In fact, SpiderSapien does find this form and its XSS in the repeated evaluation case study in Section IV-D. This indicates that more time or repeated runs are helpful to minimize false negatives, as discussed in Section V-E. Most notably, neither ablated version finds XSS in as many applications as SpiderSapien. Some clear examples of why ablated versions fail are on Piwigo and Kanboard. Piwigo’s unique button type, using 

label elements, makes it impossible for SS -ELM +LLM to click the button and generate the necessary form for XSS. Conversely, complex forms on Kanboard make it impossible for SS -LLM +ELM to generate the correct inputs to create new projects and tasks.    

> TABLE IV LOCEXECUTED ON THE SERVER BY SPIDER SAPIEN AND THE ABLATED VERSIONS

SS -LLM +ELM AND SS -ELM +LLM .SpiderSapien SS -LLM +ELM SS -ELM +LLM                            

> DokuWiki 18 686 18 022 16 483 HotCRP 36 429 21 255 25 782 Kanboard 16 668 7 286 13 638 Leantime 29 262 25 122 28 608 Nextcloud 67 599 65 617 62 352 osCommerce 121 048 101 423 77 208 Piwigo 50 996 23 739 22 454 TinyFileManager 1 423 1 170 1 197 WordPress 59 732 57 740 56 796

C. Crawlers v.s. Task Solvers 

An important difference between a crawler and a task solver is their respective recurrent loop or single-pass run. The recurrent crawling loop of SpiderSapien allows it to exercise deeper application functionality that is only uncovered after some actions, rather than being immediately available. On the other hand, task solvers such as YuraScanner first make a static list of tasks, and then execute those tasks. YuraScanner uses a limited crawl as the context for an LLM to generate a list of tasks. While an LLM could possibly infer that some deeper functionality will appear, it often fails to in practice. For example, on HotCRP, the tasks YuraScanner generates correspond primarily to surface-level actions. Deeper functionalities in the application, such as writing a review, are not included in these tasks, as this functionality only appears after a successful paper submission. As can be seen in Section IV-E, while YuraScanner is successful at performing these shallow actions, it misses deeper states of HotCRP. 

D. LLM Form Solving Implementation and Prompt 

We provide additional details about the implementation and prompt for our LLM form solving method here. 

Function Calling. To describe the task of form solving and easily parse model output, we provide an API for the LLM. This function is called by the LLM to input the result of a form solve, instructing the LLM to provide the structured output as a list of (CSS locator, user input) pairs. 

Input Automation. The (CSS locator, user input) pairs are read from the LLM’s output, and input is automatically entered into the form elements. This input automation includes support for clicking on checkbox and radio types, choosing appropriate values from select elements, uploading files, and typing into text fields. System prompt: 

You are a webpage tester. Do make assumptions about what values to plug into functions. Randomly generate realistic values to test. Match the language and region. 

Few-shot examples: Example user prompt 

Send user input to the following form. <form> ... example ... </form> 

Example LLM response 

[(CSS selector, input value), ...] 

User prompt 

Required elements are: ... All input elements are: ... Input to element .. must match regex .. Send user input to the following form. <form> ... </form> 

LLM response 

[(CSS selector, input value), ...] 

Fig. 6. Prompting template for LLM form solving 

Few-shot Examples. The LLM is also provided additional context about the problem domain in the form of six simple examples of forms and function calls the LLM should generate to solve them. 

Prompt. Figure 6 contains the complete prompting template for LLM form solving. Note that the instruction “Do make assumptions about what values to plug into functions” is deliberate since the model should assume plausible values and proceed. This prompt is used as described in Section III-C. 

E. LLM Parameters and Cost 

In our evaluation, we use the Gemini 2.5 Flash LLM with a temperature of 1.7. We did not systematically evaluate other choices for these parameters. While this can be improved in future work, integrating more careful selection of which form inputs to provide, as indicated by Section IV-E and Section V-E may be more beneficial. We do offer a small 8-hour evaluation of the performance of the scanner across some different Gemini models and temperatures, on TinyFileManager (Table V) and Kanboard (Table VI). The chosen model and temperature perform well on TinyFileManager, with only marginal gains from switching to the 2.5 Flash-Lite model. However, on Kanboard, there is 

TABLE V SCANNER PERFORMANCE ON TINY FILE MANAGER WITH DIFFERENT MODELS AND TEMPERATURES , COMPARED TO THE EVALUATED 2.5 F LASH MODEL WITH TEMPERATURE 1.7. Model 2.5 Flash-Lite 2.5 Flash 2.5 Pro Temperature A \ B A ∩ B B \ A A \ B A ∩ B B \ A A \ B A ∩ B B \ A                                    

> 0.0 98 1317 4103 1312 15 102 1313 61.0 91406 11 144 1271 12 100 1315 16 1.7 01415 601415 027 1388 92.0 97 1318 998 1317 697 1318 5

TABLE VI SCANNER PERFORMANCE ON KANBOARD WITH DIFFERENT MODELS AND TEMPERATURES , COMPARED TO THE EVALUATED 2.5 F LASH MODEL WITH TEMPERATURE 1.7. Model 2.5 Flash-Lite 2.5 Flash 2.5 Pro Temperature A \ B A ∩ B B \ A A \ B A ∩ B B \ A A \ B A ∩ B B \ A                                    

> 0.0 690 7682 9593 149 8223 1651 1556 6816 10112 1.0 1208 7164 1340 1540 6832 1602 1186 7186 3254 1.7 343 8029 1421 08372 089 8283 2447 2.0 703 7669 9618 665 7707 1712 1001 7371 5584

much more variance in how different models and temperatures perform, which can indicate the potential improvement from a systematic parameter search, including model and temperature. We note that the majority of (model, temperature) parametriza-tions explore different parts of the application, with 19291 different LoC discovered by all parametrizations in this table. Only a few particularly successful parametrizations, such as (2.5 Pro, 0.0), (2.5 Flash-Lite, 0.0), and (2.5 Flash-Lite, 2.0) discover most of this surface. We present the LLM usage details of SpiderSapien, in terms of token usage and cost, in Table VII. 

F. Web Applications 

In Table VIII we present the exact version of each web application used in the evaluation, as well as the amount of stars their code repositories have on GitHub, and which prior work has also evaluated on any version of these applications. In Table IX we present the front-end JavaScript frameworks used by the evaluated web applications. We modify the applications to help scanners automatically authenticate, either by instrumenting the authentication func-tion or by simulating an automatic login. This is necessary as many of the other scanners we evaluate fail to correctly sign in on some of these modern applications. It also helps the scan-ners re-authenticate even if they sign out by mistake. Avoiding sign-outs is an orthogonal problem (see ReScan [39]), but one that all scanners face. With these modifications we can learn more about the crawling capabilities of the various scanners without getting stuck on their varying support for successful authentication. Additionally, since we are interested in detecting vulnerable 

code in web applications, we deactivate hardening function-ality such as Content-Security Policy (CSP). In practice, this only affects Kanboard. We argue that it is still important to find XSS vulnerabilities even if they are mitigated by CSP as someone could run an instance without CSP. Furthermore, TABLE VII TOKEN USAGE AND COST OF LLM USAGE DURING AN 8-HOUR EVALUATION RUN OF SPIDER SAPIEN WITH THE GEMINI 2.5 F LASH LLM. C OSTS ARE CALCULATED USING GOOGLE CLOUD ’S PRICING MODEL [46]. A COST BASED SOLELY ON NUMBER OF I/O TOKENS IS FIRST PRESENTED , AND THEN THE LOWERED COST WHEN REPEATED INPUTS (I.E., THE PROMPT TEMPLATE INCLUDING EXAMPLES ) ARE CACHED AND BILLED AT A CHEAPER RATE .Application API calls Input Cached input Output Total Cost w/o cache Cost w/ cache DokuWiki 157 648888 78651 6127 706518 $0.87 $0.78 HotCRP 1022 4429578 749968 57404 4898428 $6.11 $5.36 Kanboard 358 858286 254407 15621 991104 $1.23 $0.97 Leantime 922 6354132 730564 35743 6740550 $8.30 $7.57 Nextcloud 77 380593 38922 2471 410489 $0.50 $0.46 osCommerce 324 2263477 202604 22115 2490902 $3.05 $2.85 Piwigo 49 197600 11042 1750 226661 $0.26 $0.25 TinyFileManager 45 99701 25703 1570 116146 $0.14 $0.11 WordPress 140 643265 101309 4849 701640 $0.85 $0.74 Total 3094 15875520 2193170 147650 17282438 $21.32 $19.10 TABLE VIII THE VERSION , NUMBER OF GIT HUB STARS , AND PRIOR WORK FOR EACH WEB APPLICATION .Application Version Date Description GitHub stars Prior work DokuWiki 2024-02-06b 2024-02-06 CMS 4.6k [9], [36] HotCRP 9588ab0 2024-09-18 Conference Manager 410 [8], [28], [9], [36] Kanboard 1.2.40 2024-09-26 Project Manager 9.6k [9], [36] Leantime 3.3.3 2024-11-27 Project Manager 9.5k [10] Nextcloud 33.0.0.16 2026-02-17 Collaboration Platform 43.7k [36] osCommerce 4.14.63493 2024-04-26 Ecommerce 54 [8], [40], [28], [26] Piwigo 14.3.0 2024-03-01 Photo Album 3.8k [19], [5], [36] TinyFileManager 2.6 2024-11-05 File Explorer 5.9k N/A WordPress 6.6.2 2024-09-10 CMS 21.1k [8], [40], [3], [19], [5], [11], [33], [9], [36], [26] TABLE IX FRONT -END JS FRAMEWORKS USED BY THE PHP WEB APPLICATIONS INCLUDED IN THE EVALUATION .Application Front-end frameworks DokuWiki jQuery HotCRP jQuery Kanboard jQuery Leantime Bootstrap, jQuery Nextcloud jQuery, Vue.js osCommerce Bootstrap, jQuery Piwigo jQuery TinyFileManager Bootstrap, jQuery WordPress jQuery, React 

there is a precedent for the Kanboard developers fixing XSS vulnerabilities [9]. 

G. Coverage Metrics 

Server-side code coverage, such as that gathered through xDebug in PHP web applications, is the most common way to measure coverage in a web application scanning or fuzzing session. However, other types of coverage can be measured. For example, the recent SoK on web security crawlers [11] measures not only (1) server-side code coverage, but also (2) JavaScript source coverage, and (3) link coverage. JavaScript source coverage is defined by collecting the hashes of retrieved inline or external JavaScript. JavaScript code coverage (4) can also be measured by retrieving the statistics of total and unused bytes of JavaScript code through the Chrome DevTools. This has been used by Kang et al. [23], but has not yet been widely adopted by other scanning works. Comparative evaluation is difficult, as each scanner needs to gather such metrics. Therefore, we only present the coverage in the (1) metric: server-side code coverage. Possible client-side metrics for coverage (2-4) are harder to collect. Dynamically generated scripts and links will perturb these measurements. While a notion of state coverage would best measure the ability for scanners to reach deep states in web applications, this metric is nontrivial to define. Other scanners that target deep state, such as YuraScanner, still only measure cover-age with standard metrics. In a database-backed application without any other state, database coverage might approximate this [19]. Even defining states is tricky. YuraScanner takes a first step by manually categorizing states from steps in task traces, but can only use this to identify task success or failure. Similarly, the depth of traces, either in tasks or crawling, is hard to measure. Measuring this requires knowing the shortest possible path to any given application state. The approximation YuraScanner takes by counting the number of steps in a task can be misleading, as steps can, and do, repeat. We present our own analysis of state depth in Section IV-E. TABLE X COMPARISON OF CLIENT -SIDE COVERAGE IN EXECUTED KB S OF 

JAVASCRIPT (WITH PERCENT OF TOTAL IN PARENTHESES ) BETWEEN 

SPIDER SAPIEN AND BLACK OSTRICH . T HE Total COLUMN INDICATES THE 

> T O T A L

BY T E S AS REPORTED BY CHROME .Crawlers SpiderSapien ( A) v.s. Black Ostrich ( B)

A \ B A ∩ B B \ A Total (KB) DokuWiki 360 (45%) 152 (19%) 13 (2%) 805 HotCRP 517 (38%) 210 (15%) 53 (4%) 1 371 Kanboard 23 (2%) 276 (27%) 7 (1%) 1 027 Leantime 468 (7%) 2 046 (32%) 213 (3%) 6 472 Nextcloud 33 663 (35%) 26 211 (27%) 1 133 (1%) 96 373 osCommerce 38 361 (74%) 1 242 (2%) 3 233 (6%) 51 951 Piwigo 1 898 (38%) 179 (4%) 6 (0%) 4 965 TinyFileManager 283 (28%) 268 (27%) 1 (0%) 1 002 WordPress 6 327 (43%) 3 835 (26%) 254 (2%) 14 670 TABLE XI INTERACTABLE ELEMENTS , NON -SEMANTIC ELEMENTS , AND NON -SEMANTIC TAGS FOUND BY SPIDER SAPIEN .Scanner SpiderSapien Application Elements Elements (NS) Tags (NS) DokuWiki 2000 26 7HotCRP 4776 21 5Kanboard 2662 96 7Leantime 3402 158 10 Nextcloud 7853 2106 17 osCommerce 4629 3502 13 Piwigo 2234 174 9TinyFileManager 797 6 2WordPress 2789 258 8

H. Client-side Coverage Data 

In Table X we present the byte-level client-side coverage achieved by SpiderSapien and Black Ostrich, as described in Section IV-F. 

I. Non-semantic Interactable Elements Data 

In Table XI we present the elements, non-semantic elements, and non-semantic tags found by SpiderSapien, as described in Section IV-G. 

J. Coverage Results Details 

In Tables XIII and XIV we present the exact numbers for the coverage evaluation. In Table XII we present the coverage improvement over other scanners or their union, both on individual applications and averaged. 

K. TinyFileManager State Annotations 

In Figure 7 we construct a state graph for TinyFileManager, based on our manual annotations of state-changing lines of code. These manual annotations are listed in Table XV. START try  save  config  +save  config try  delete  +delete try  create  file/folder  +create  file  +create  folder try  move/copy/duplidate  +copy  +duplicate try  rename  +rename try  download  +download try  mass  delete  +mass  delete try  zip try  change  permissions  +change  permissions try  save  file  +save  file try  backup  +backup zip  move try  upload try  mass  copy/move  +mass  copy/move 

Fig. 7. TinyFileManager state graph, using LoC that are manually defined as state-changing. These states are colored similarly to Figure 5, except gray. Gray states are instead only found by ZAP. TABLE XII COVERAGE IMPROVEMENT BY SPIDER SAPIEN OVER ANOTHER CRAWLER ((|A| − | B|)/(|B|)). Crawler Arachni Black Ostrich Wapiti ZAP YuraScanner EvoCrawl Union DokuWiki 154.06% 19.69% 12.67% 3.86% 16.44% 14.41% -12.24% HotCRP 745.81% 83.81% 746.99% 406.66% 179.69% 72.09% 44.63% Kanboard 153.47% 85.04% 294.79% 83.45% 164.91% 138.22% 57.32% Leantime 37.15% 9.80% 28.17% 8.62% 51.97% 9.62% -7.84% Nextcloud 372.82% 11.79% 421.68% 41.99% 17.12% 10.63% -7.16% osCommerce 322.65% 48.16% 1442.41% 1103.26% 43.65% 39.26% 9.67% Piwigo 107.32% 117.24% 962.42% 308.16% 198.66% 236.10% 74.89% TinyFileManager 46.85% 40.61% 49.63% -0.97% 48.54% 7.40% -5.64% WordPress 33.95% 13.56% 205.28% 47.78% 36.83% 22.93% 3.33% Mean 219.34% 47.74% 462.67% 222.53% 84.20% 61.18% 17.44% TABLE XIII LOC EXECUTED ON THE SERVER . E ACH COLUMN REPRESENTS THE COMPARISON BETWEEN SPIDER SAPIEN AND ANOTHER CRAWLER . T HE CELLS CONTAIN THREE NUMBERS : UNIQUE LOC COVERED BY SPIDER SAPIEN (A \ B), L OC COVERED BY BOTH CRAWLERS (A ∩ B) AND UNIQUE LOC 

> COVERED BY THE OTHER CRAWLER

(B \ A). T HE NUMBERS IN BOLD HIGHLIGHT WHICH CRAWLER HAS THE BEST COVERAGE .Crawler Arachni Black Ostrich Wapiti ZAP 

A \ B A ∩ B B \ A A \ B A ∩ B B \ A A \ B A ∩ B B \ A A \ B A ∩ B B \ A

DokuWiki 11 388 7 298 57 3 123 15 563 49 3 691 14 995 1 589 2 190 16 496 1 495 HotCRP 32 169 4 260 47 17 024 19 405 414 32 144 4 285 16 29 517 6 912 278 Kanboard 10 253 6 415 161 7 932 8 736 272 12 460 4 208 14 7 827 8 841 245 Leantime 9 032 20 230 1 106 3 918 25 344 1 306 7 510 21 752 1 078 3 816 25 446 1 495 Nextcloud 53 412 14 187 110 8 489 59 110 1 360 54 657 12 942 16 22 586 45 013 2 595 osCommerce 94 109 26 939 1 701 42 883 78 165 3 536 113 203 7 845 3 110 991 10 057 3Piwigo 27 843 23 153 1 445 28 543 22 453 1 021 46 200 4 796 4 39 157 11 839 655 TinyFileManager 517 906 63 445 978 34 513 910 41 137 1 286 151 

WordPress 17 529 42 203 2 390 8 441 51 291 1 308 40 228 19 504 62 20 325 39 407 1 013 TABLE XIV LOCS EXECUTED ON THE SERVER , COMPARED BETWEEN SPIDER SAPIEN AND THE LATEST SOTA CRAWLERS FOLLOWING THE FORMAT OF TABLE XIII. Crawler EvoCrawl YuraScanner 

A \ B A ∩ B B \ A A \ B A ∩ B B \ A

DokuWiki 3 995 14 691 1 642 3 330 15 356 692 HotCRP 15 823 20 606 562 23 474 12 955 70 Kanboard 9 773 6 895 102 10 439 6 229 63 Leantime 3 715 25 547 1 146 10 644 18 618 637 Nextcloud 10 153 57 446 3 656 15 971 51 628 6 089 osCommerce 37 104 83 944 2 980 42 158 78 890 5 378 Piwigo 36 461 14 535 638 34 125 16 871 204 TinyFileManager 133 1 290 35 515 908 50 WordPress 12 584 47 148 1 443 16 142 43 590 64 TABLE XV MANUAL TINY FILE MANAGER ANNOTATIONS OF STATE -CHANGING LOC. Annotation LoC START (index.php, 4) 

try login (index.php, 333) 

login (index.php, 337) 

search (index.php, 473) 

try save file (index.php, 480) 

save file (index.php, 501) 

try backup (index.php, 512) 

backup (index.php, 526) 

try save config (index.php, 538) 

save config (index.php, 573) 

change password (index.php, 580) 

try upload (index.php, 946) 

upload (index.php, 662) 

try delete (index.php, 676) 

delete (index.php, 685) 

try create file/folder (index.php, 699) 

create file (index.php, 710) 

create folder (index.php, 719) 

try move/copy/duplidate (index.php, 736) 

move (index.php, 761) 

copy (index.php, 769) 

duplicate (index.php, 793) 

try mass copy/move (index.php, 808) 

mass copy/move (index.php, 862) 

try rename (index.php, 877) 

rename (index.php, 896) 

try download (index.php, 910) 

download (index.php, 934) 

upload1 (index.php, 1024) 

upload2 (index.php, 1039) 

upload3 (index.php, 1062) 

try mass delete (index.php, 1091) 

mass delete (index.php, 1112) 

try zip (index.php, 1127) 

zip (index.php, 1176) 

try unzip (index.php, 1191) 

unzip (index.php, 1247) 

try change permissions (index.php, 1261) 

change permissions (index.php, 1309)