Title: SoK: Secure Software-Based Multi-Domain Data Segregation

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2609.07701v1

Published Time: Wed, 09 Sep 2026 02:34:17 GMT

Number of Pages: 26

Markdown Content:
Noname manuscript No. 

(will be inserted by the editor) 

# SoK: Secure Software-Based Multi-Domain Data Segregation 

Quang Cao 1 · Peter Vinci 2 · Nick Georghiou 2 · Shane Phillips 2 ·

Mathieu Philippe 2 · Nalin Arachchilage 1

> Received: date / Accepted: date

Abstract Modern mission-critical coordination demands seamless communication across multiple domains. Tradi-tionally, Voice Communication Systems (VCS) have re-lied on physically separated Red/Black architectures to ensure voice and data segregation. While these hardware-based methods provide strong security assurances and remain foundational in high-security contexts, they can introduce significant complexity and scalability chal-lenges as mission parameters expand into highly dy-namic, multi-domain integrations. As defence, emer-gency response, and critical infrastructure operations increasingly require interoperable, flexible, and cost-efficient communication environments, there is a growing need to understand whether software-based approaches can provide comparable assurance while supporting mod-ern operational requirements. This SoK characterises a transition to software-based Multi-Domain Data Segre-gation (MDDS) by integrating systems security, network-ing, and cryptography. Its goal is to consolidate existing research, identify shared architectural patterns, and address the security challenges facing next-generation high-assurance software-based VCS architectures. By assessing software-defined and virtualized approaches, this SoK supports the development of scalable, high-assurance VCS architectures that facilitate secure real-time coordination across diverse operational domains. Specifically, this SoK examines the security implica-tions of Software-Defined Networking, Network Slicing,      

> #Quang Cao 
> nhat.quang.cao2@rmit.edu.au Nalin Arachchilage 
> nalin.arachchilage@rmit.edu.au
> 1RMIT University, Melbourne, Australia
> 2C4i Pty Ltd, Melbourne, Australia

Separation Kernels, and Cross-Domain Solutions while addressing challenges posed by quantum computing through Post-Quantum Cryptography (PQC). As the first comprehensive synthesis of the shift from hardware-enforced isolation to software-based segregation, this SoK serves as an essential foundation for researchers and industry stakeholders seeking to advance secure, adaptable, and future-ready VCS infrastructures for mission-critical operations. 

Keywords Voice Communications Systems · Cross Domain Solution · Software-Defined Networking ·

Network Function Virtualization · Network Slicing ·

Separation Kernel · Air Gap 

1 Introduction 

Modern operational environments increasingly require communication systems that can support multiple secu-rity domains simultaneously [59]. However, traditional air-gapped architectures were built around the assump-tion of strict physical separation and are typically lim-ited to two domains. While these architectures provide strong security guarantees, their reliance on complex, hardware-only separation makes them costly, inflexible, and difficult to scale when meeting the efficiency de-mands of contemporary multi-domain operations [85]. As illustrated in Figure 1, hardware-enforced isolation relies on completely separate networks to prevent cross-domain leakage of voice data. This reliance on physical duplication often confines systems to just two security domains, revealing a notable limitation when navigating the complexities of modern environments that demand the integration of multiple, diverse security enclaves. The concept of multiple domains contains distinct security domains, defined as systems operating within arXiv:2609.07701v1 [cs.CR] 7 Sep 2026 2 Quang Cao 1 et al. Secure IP Network  Unsecure IP Network    

> Telephony Radio IP Voice Recorder Telephony Radio IP Voice Recorder
> RED DOMAIN
> (Classified Network)
> BLACK DOMAIN
> (Unclassified Network)
> AIR
> GAP

Fig. 1 Red/Black architecture with strict air-gap isolation, ensuring complete separation between classified and unclassi-fied domains. 

specific administrative and security boundaries and gov-erned by a standard security policy [5]. Within these boundaries, information assets are protected and man-aged in accordance with established security principles and procedures. This approach segments information environments based on varying trust and security obli-gations [5]. Each security domain is governed by a security pol-icy that outlines information classification, release con-ditions, and handling requirements [28]. For example, NATO uses a five-tier classification system (see Table 1 for further details). These policies specify who can access domain-specific information and establish neces-sary security controls to maintain data confidentiality, integrity, and availability [28]. In practice, a security domain can refer to an organ-isation’s enterprise network operating under a specific classification or to an enclave within a larger network [5]. External networks, such as the public internet, are sep-arate domains with undefined security controls, posing additional risks, such as malicious ingress, data egress, traffic interception and manipulation [5,90,42,116]. The concept of security domains is crucial in designing multi-domain environments. Classified information (RED) is separated from unclassified information (BLACK) to ensure sensitive data are managed in distinct systems, as shown in Figure 1 [16]. This segregation is essen-tial for secure communications and data management, especially in military and governmental settings. As se-curity challenges evolve, multi-domain architectures are increasingly essential to address complex risks. In this SoK, we examine potential pathways for transitioning from hardware-based isolation to software-based multi-domain data segregation in Voice Commu-nication Systems (VCS), with particular awareness to balancing operational scalability and strong security 

Table 1 NATO security classification levels and their disclo-sure impact. 

NATO Classification Description 

COSMIC TOP SECRET (CTS) Protects information whose disclosure would cause exception-ally grave damage to NATO. NATO SECRET (NS) Covers information whose disclosure would cause severe damage to NATO. NATO CONFIDENTIAL (NC) Applies to information whose disclosure would damage NATO’s inter-ests. NATO RESTRICTED (NR) Used for information whose disclosure would be disadvantageous to NATO. NATO UNCLASSIFIED (NU) Refers to official NATO information that does not meet classification criteria and may be shared ex-ternally when it poses no risk to NATO. 

guarantees. Our study is guided by three research ques-tions: 

RQ1: What software-based methods, frameworks, and architectures have been proposed to enable secure multi-domain data segregation? 

RQ2: What technical and operational limitations have been identified in existing software-based segre-gation mechanisms? 

RQ3: What research gaps remain, and how can they inform a future roadmap for secure VCS design? The remainder of this paper is structured as follows. Section 3 details the methodology employed for this systematization. Section 3.3 addresses RQ1 by catego-rizing the 80 reviewed papers into thematic groups and identifies the technical limitations pertinent to RQ2. In addressing RQ3, Section 4 synthesizes these findings into a layered architectural model for software-based multi-domain systems, while also evaluating the system-level limitations of current mechanisms. Collectively, these sections highlight a significant research gap: the lack of a unified software solution for operator-centric Voice Com-munication Systems (VCS). Finally, Section 5 proposes a roadmap for integrated architectural frameworks and empirical validation to strike a balance between security and real-time performance. SoK: Secure Software-Based Multi-Domain Data Segregation 3

This SoK makes three significant contributions. First, it offers a comprehensive cross-disciplinary synthesis of 80 papers across systems security, networking, cryptog-raphy, and critical infrastructure, effectively unifying previously fragmented research on various aspects of VCS security. Second, it presents a structured evalua-tion framework for approaches to multi-domain data segregation. Finally, it identifies key research gaps and outlines a forward-looking roadmap to facilitate the se-cure design of next-generation, scalable, software-based multi-domain data segregation for VCS. 

2 Background Voice Communication Systems (VCS) function as sophisticated digital switching platforms in high-pressure environments such as air traffic control and military oper-ations [68]. They enable operators to communicate with pilots and ground crews by converting voice into digital data transmitted over IP-based networks. Each opera-tor interacts through a dedicated workstation equipped with an user interface and headset, which connects to a distributed call control and routing infrastructure rather than a single central system. To safeguard sensi-tive information, VCS traditionally employ a Red/Black security architecture, where a strict physical air gap separates classified (Red) and unclassified (Black) do-mains (see Figure 1). This design effectively prevents unintended voice leakage, ensuring that communications remain confidential. Only a minimal amount of control data is permitted to traverse the Cross Domain Solution (CDS), where it undergoes rigorous filtering and con-trolled transfer. Although this model has traditionally depended on hardware-enforced isolation, current trends are shifting towards software-based and virtualized im-plementations, which introduce greater flexibility while also presenting evolving security challenges [16,30,49]. 

Cross Domain Solution (CDS) is a security mech-anism that regulates information exchange between net-works of different security levels [5]. By default, it blocks all data flow and only permits communication that com-plies with established security policies, ensuring con-fidentiality, integrity, availability, authenticity, and ac-countability across domains. CDS can be implemented as hardware, software, or both, commonly found in military and high-assurance environments. There are three main types: access solutions (view-only interactions), transfer solutions (controlled data movement), and Multi-Level Security (MLS) solutions (managing users and data across classification levels). Well-designed CDS archi-tectures prevent unauthorized access and cross-domain threats while enabling interoperability [6,111,5]. For detailed information regarding CDS, see Appendix C. 

Software-defined networking (SDN) improves upon traditional networks by separating the control plane from the data plane, allowing centralized manage-ment of network intelligence while switches handle traffic forwarding. Its architecture comprises three planes: the Data Plane (forwarding devices), the Control Plane (centralized controller using protocols such as Open-Flow), and the Application Plane (network applications). Through programmability and open standards, SDN minimizes vendor lock-in, streamlines network manage-ment, and improves scalability and flexibility [76,44,109, 36]. For detailed technical specifications and its archi-tectural details, see Appendix A. 

Network slicing enhances virtualization by creat-ing multiple end-to-end service-specific virtual networks over a shared physical infrastructure. Each slice operates as an independent logical network with tailored control, data, and management properties to meet specific per-formance, reliability, or security needs. Widely used in 5G and mission-critical systems, slicing supports diverse applications, such as ultra-reliable low-latency services and high-bandwidth media delivery, without requiring separate physical networks. Slices are instantiated from predefined templates and implemented with virtualized network functions on shared hardware. Slicing can be vertical (service-oriented), horizontal (resource parti-tioning), static (preconfigured), or dynamic (real-time adjustments), allowing for scalable and flexible network management [20,14,126,52]. For comprehensive infor-mation on various types of network slicing, refer to Appendix B. 

Separation kernels , first proposed by Rushby in 1981 [102], are minimal, high-assurance microkernels or bare-metal hypervisors that enforce strict isolation be-tween software partitions on shared hardware, minimiz-ing the Trusted Computing Base (TCB). Each partition operates as if on a separate machine, with controlled information flow. This architecture is a cornerstone of the Multiple Independent Levels of Security (MILS) ar-chitecture and is widely used in high-assurance domains such as avionics [98]. Their compact design enables for-mal verification and certification under standards such as Common Criteria EAL 5 and DO-178B/C, making them essential for safety and security critical systems [4, 132,124,58,101,29,53]. For further details on separation kernels and comparisons, please refer to Table 9 and Appendix D. 

Internet Protocol Security (IPsec) is a network-layer security framework that provides confidentiality, integrity, and authentication for IP communications, pri-marily used in Virtual Private Networks (VPNs) [112]. It operates in two modes: transport mode, which encrypts only the packet payload, and tunnel mode, which en-4 Quang Cao 1 et al. 

crypts the entire IP packet [52,112]. To counter quantum threats to traditional cryptography, PQC algorithms such as Dilithium and Kyber can be integrated into IPsec, ensuring quantum-resilient communication while utilizing symmetric encryption [52]. 

Access control is a vital security mechanism that manages access to physical and digital resources through identification, authentication, authorization, and audit-ing. It includes physical controls such as locks and bio-metrics and logical controls such as passwords and Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA). Organizations use vari-ous models such as Mandatory Access Control (MAC), Discretionary Access Control (DAC), Role-Based Ac-cess Control (RBAC), and Attribute-Based Access Con-trol (ABAC), to meet their security needs. Effective access control is crucial for maintaining confidential-ity, integrity, compliance, and protection against data breaches [40,94]. Existing multi-domain data segregation solutions are predominantly hardware-based, relying on physical separation or duplicated infrastructure to enforce secu-rity boundaries. While effective, these approaches are costly, difficult to scale, inflexible to reconfiguration, and poorly suited to modern requirements such as rapid de-ployment, cloud integration, and AI-enabled processing. There remains a significant knowledge gap in under-standing how software-based architectures can provide equivalent or higher assurance while improving scalabil-ity, maintainability, and adaptability. To address this gap, we undertake a systematic literature review (SLR) to examine existing software-based frameworks, archi-tectures, methods, and techniques for data segregation, identifying their strengths, limitations, and assurance trade-offs. This evidence-driven understanding is essen-tial to inform the design of a robust, high-assurance software-defined data segregation architecture that can meet the demands of contemporary multi-domain oper-ational environments. 

3 Systematic Literature Review 

This SLR aims to provide a comprehensive and critical examination of current state-of-the-art methods, frame-works, and architectures designed for secure, software-based multi-domain data segregation. The review method-ology adheres to the guidelines established by Kitchen-ham and Charters, which provide a systematic and replicable framework for performing SLRs within the discipline of software engineering [62,65,32]. Following these guidelines, the SLR was structured into three key phases: planning , conducting , and reporting .3.1 Planning the Review In the planning stage, a structured protocol was devel-oped comprising four key components: defining research questions , constructing search strings , identifying data sources , and determining study selection criteria . The primary purpose of this protocol was to minimise re-searcher bias by clearly outlining these elements prior to the execution of the SLR [62,65,32]. 

3.1.1 Defining Research Questions 

The formulation of research questions (RQs) is a key component of the planning stage, serving as the corner-stone that directs the entire SLR process [62,65,32]. To precisely address our objective of investigating secure multi-domain data segregation, we meticulously aligned our methodology with the established RQs as outlined below: 

Data Searching: We utilized the PICOC frame-work (Population, Intervention, Comparison, Outcome, Context), as outlined in Table 2, to systematically de-velop our search strategy. The keywords derived from each PICOC element (detailed in Table 3) were carefully selected to create search strings that effectively capture literature on software-based segregation methods (RQ1), their identified limitations (RQ2), and the broader gaps in VCS research (RQ3). 

Data Extraction: We developed a targeted data ex-traction form aimed at capturing evidence that directly addresses our research questions (RQs). Specifically, we extracted structural details of proposed software frame-works and architectures to answer RQ1, documented any explicitly stated technical or operational limitations to address RQ2, and recorded the authors’ identified future work and unresolved challenges to inform RQ3. 

Data Analysis: Our analysis procedures were de-signed to clarify the extracted data into clear answers for each research question (RQ). This included categorizing the diverse software-based mechanisms and architec-tures for RQ1, conducting a thematic analysis of the identified operational bottlenecks and limitations for RQ2, and synthesizing the remaining research gaps to propose a cohesive roadmap for the future design of secure VCS (RQ3). By employing the PICOC framework to structure our search strings and meticulously aligning our extraction and analysis protocols with Research Questions 1, 2, and 3, we establish a rigorously traceable and transparent SLR process [62,65,32]. SoK: Secure Software-Based Multi-Domain Data Segregation 5                            

> Table 2 PICOC elements, definitions, and SLR applications [62, 65, 32].
> Element Definition SLR Application
> Population Population of interest in the SLR. Software artifacts and systems handling multi-domain environments. Intervention Existing approaches addressing the core problem. Software-based security mechanisms, architectures, design patterns, and cryp-tographic techniques. Comparison Alternative approaches used for comparison. Baseline security mecha-nisms (e.g., air-gap net-works). Outcome(s) Effects of the interven-tions on the population. Security, efficiency, and flex-ibility of data segregation in multi-domain environ-ments. Context Research setting or operational environ-ment. Networked, heterogeneous, mission-critical multi-domain systems supporting real-time voice communi-cation over redundant IP networks.

3.1.2 Constructing Search Strings 

The search strings used to identify relevant literature were developed based on the PICOC elements presented in Table 3. First, Primary Phrase(s) were formulated for each element according to its specific SLR focus (e.g., security mechanisms, architectures, design patterns for the intervention element). Second, these primary phrases were systematically expanded into a comprehensive list of derived keywords by incorporating synonyms, related terms, and common variations (e.g., expanding segrega-tion to separation or partition). Finally, the derived key-words were refined for database searching through the application of Boolean logic (AND / OR) and the use of the asterisk (*) for stemming (e.g., segregat* to capture different word forms). The complete set of search terms and operators is presented under the column Derived Keyword(s) in Table 3. To ensure accuracy, duplicate keywords within each element’s set were removed. The final search query was then formulated using the logical operators AND and OR, as shown below: 

Search string: (”multi-domain” OR ”multi-enclave” OR ”multi-security domain” OR ”cross-domain” OR ”multi-level”) AND (security OR secure OR crypto-graph* OR guard OR virtualization OR middleware OR TEMPEST OR emanations OR logical) AND (mech-anism OR architecture OR system OR technique OR                                  

> Table 3 Keyword derivation for research questions and search strings (excluding the Comparison element) [62, 65, 32].
> Element Primary Phrase(s) Derived Keyword(s)
> Population Software ar-tifacts, sys-tems, multi-domain (”multi-domain” OR ”multi-enclave” OR ”multi-security domain” OR ”cross-domain” OR ”multi-level”) Intervention Security mechanisms, architec-tures, design patterns, crypto-graphic techniques (security OR secure OR cryptograph* OR guard OR virtualization OR mid-dleware OR TEMPEST OR emanations OR logical) AND (mechanism OR ar-chitecture OR system OR technique OR method OR approach OR software OR platform OR network OR solution OR segregat* OR separ* OR segmentation OR isolation) Outcome(s) Security, ef-ficiency, flex-ibility, data segregation (confidenti* OR integrity OR efficien* OR flexib* OR ”information assurance” OR agility OR reconfigura-bility OR classification OR ”zero trust”) Context Networked, hetero-geneous, mission-critical, voice com-munication (”command and control” OR ”military network” OR ”tactical network” OR ”bat-tlefield network” OR ”coali-tion network” OR ”voice communication” OR ”het-erogeneous network” OR ”voice guard”)

method OR approach OR software OR platform OR net-work OR solution OR segregat* OR separ* OR segmen-tation OR isolation) AND (confidenti* OR integrity OR efficien* OR flexib* OR ”information assurance” OR agility OR reconfigurability OR classification OR ”zero trust”) AND (”command and control” OR ”military net-work” OR ”tactical network” OR ”battlefield network” OR ”coalition network” OR ”voice communication” OR ”heterogeneous network” OR ”voice guard”) 3.1.3 Identifying Data Sources 

The search was conducted up to November 20, 2025, with no specific starting date, allowing for the inclu-sion of all relevant studies that contained the specified search terms, regardless of their publication year. The re-view covered academic databases including IEEE Xplore, SpringerLink, Web of Science, Scopus and the ACM Dig-ital Library. Additionally, Google was used to identify white papers and other publicly available documents 6 Quang Cao 1 et al. 

relevant to this field. In this SLR, we adopted a struc-tured search strategy, as outlined in Table 4, to detail the steps undertaken in the study [62,65,32].      

> Table 4 Search Strategy.
> Category Details Academic Databases
> IEEE Xplore Springer Link Scopus ACM Digital Library Web of Science
> General Databases Google
> Target Items
> Journal Papers Survey Papers Conference Papers Book Chapters White Papers
> Language English
> Publication Period Start date not set End date: November 20, 2025

3.1.4 Determining Study Selection Criteria 

The search execution phase involved applying the con-structed search string across the selected databases to retrieve relevant literature. The resulting papers were then categorised by database, as shown in Table 5.         

> Table 5 SLR Search Results Categorized by Database [62, 65, 32].
> Search String
> (”multi-domain” OR ”multi-enclave” OR ”multi-security domain” OR ”cross-domain” OR ”multi-level”) AND (se-curity OR secure OR cryptograph* OR guard OR virtu-alization OR middleware OR TEMPEST OR emanations OR logical) AND (mechanism OR architecture OR sys-tem OR technique OR method OR approach OR software OR platform OR network OR solution OR segregat* OR separ* OR segmentation OR isolation) AND (confidenti* OR integrity OR efficien* OR flexib* OR ”information assurance” OR agility OR reconfigurability OR classifica-tion OR ”zero trust”) AND (”command and control” OR ”military network” OR ”tactical network” OR ”battlefield network” OR ”coalition network” OR ”voice communica-tion” OR ”heterogeneous network” OR ”voice guard”)
> Database Date Papers
> IEEE Xplore 20-11-2025 48 Springer Link 1830 Scopus 59 ACM Digital Library 771 Web of Science 33
> Total 2741

During this phase, several key observations were made. First, the number of retrieved studies was con-siderably large, mainly due to the comprehensive and detailed nature of the search string. Second, because each database search was conducted independently, du-plicate records were present among the results. Finally, some papers identified through the search originated from different but potentially relevant contexts, indi-cating the breadth of coverage achieved by the search strategy. To ensure the relevance and quality of the selected studies, it was therefore necessary to establish and apply strict inclusion and exclusion criteria to re-fine and narrow down the final set of papers used for analysis, as shown in Table 6.              

> Table 6 Overview of Inclusion and Exclusion Criteria Applied During SLR Study Selection [62, 65, 32].
> Type ID Statement
> Inclusion I1 Journal papers I2 Conference papers I3 Book chapters I4 Survey papers I5 Papers in computer science I6 Papers in engineering Exclusion E1 Papers not written in English E2 Duplicate papers within the search results E3 Papers that are not primary research E4 Papers that are not accessible

3.2 Conducting the Review 

3.2.1 Literature Review Execution 

In November 2025, we conducted a systematic search across all digital libraries, including IEEE Xplore, Springer-Link, Web of Science, Scopus, and the ACM Digital Library, as listed in Section 3.1.3. These libraries were queried using the search terms defined in Section 3.1.2. A total of 2741 papers were screened using these crite-ria. Following recommendations from prior studies [13, 81], the criteria were applied iteratively across different reading stages to improve efficiency. The full screening workflow, including the number of papers included and excluded at each phase, is summarised in Table 7. After removing papers not written in English (E1), those that already met the inclusion criteria (I1–I6), and duplicates (E2), the exclusion criteria (E1–E4) were applied to ti-tles (1399 papers), abstracts (884 papers), and the intro-duction and conclusion sections (316 papers). Full-text screening was then conducted on 247 papers, applying both inclusion and exclusion criteria (I1–I6 and E1–E4) SoK: Secure Software-Based Multi-Domain Data Segregation 7

to determine the type of evidence. Ultimately, all 80 papers met the selection criteria and were included in the final dataset. In order to rigorously assess their con-tributions to secure, software-based multi-domain data segregation, the selected works are systematically orga-nized and elaborated upon across six distinct subsections in Appendix E: Software-Defined Networking (SDN), Network Function Virtualization (NFV), and Network Slicing (Section E.1); Cross-Domain, Multi-Domain, and Heterogeneous environments (Section E.2); Command, Control, and Military Systems (Section E.3); Cybersecu-rity, Threat Detection, and Policy (Section E.4); Secure IoT Architecture and Policy Control (Section E.5); and Foundational Security and Assurance (Section E.6).                                

> Table 7 Study selection results after applying inclusion and exclusion criteria [62, 65, 32].
> Step Criteria Total Incl. Excl.
> Database search Search string 2741 ––Non-English re-moved E1 2741 2721 20 Apply inclusion criteria I1–I6 2721 1486 1235 Duplicates re-moved E2 1486 1399 87 Title screening E1–E4 1399 884 515 Abstract screen-ing E1–E4 884 316 568 Introduction-conclusion screening E1–E4 316 247 69 Full-text screen-ing I1–I6, E1–E4 247 80 167

3.3 Reporting the Review To ensure full coverage of all 80 reviewed papers, Table 8 maps each paper to its corresponding thematic group and summarises the key gaps identified in the literature, which are further analysed in the following subsections. 

3.3.1 Software-Defined Networking (SDN), Network Function Virtualization (NFV), and Network Slicing 

The list of papers in the Section E.1 primarily focuses on the enabling technologies of Software Defined Net-working (SDN), Network Virtualization, and Network Slicing as foundational concepts for modern and flexible network management. These papers collectively suggest that software-defined approaches are crucial for mov-ing beyond rigid, traditional air-gapped architectures toward a multi-domain operational environment. 

Theme 1: Foundational SDN Architectures and Prin-ciples. A significant number of studies delineate the architectural and operational foundations of Software-Defined Networking (SDN), emphasizing centralized con-trol, programmability, and abstraction as essential en-ablers of contemporary networks. Foundational surveys and architectural analyses [44,109,9,122,61] elaborate on SDN layers, controller designs, and application ecosys-tems. Complementary research investigates controller frameworks, programmability, and optimization strate-gies [26,96,113,71,35], illustrating how SDN facilitates scalable and multi-domain control. Earlier studies on programmable routing and network security [17] further underscore the evolution towards software-controlled infrastructures. Security-focused surveys [76,24] assess threats, at-tack surfaces, and mitigation strategies within SDN, while studies oriented towards Quality of Service (QoS) and performance [63] demonstrate how SDN can uphold service guarantees in dynamic environments. Collec-tively, these works establish SDN as a mature paradigm capable of implementing complex policies across multi-ple domains. 

Key Takeaways: SDN introduces centralized pro-grammability, fine-grained control, and dynamic policy enforcement, serving as the fundamental enabler for transitioning from rigid, hardware-based isolation to software-defined multi-domain architectures. 

Theme 2: NFV, Virtualization, and Service Func-tion Realization. Network Function Virtualization (NFV) and virtualization enhance Software-Defined Networking (SDN) by decoupling network functions from hardware. This enables flexible deployment and orchestration of services. Comprehensive reviews [12,2] and studies fo-cused on specific Virtual Network Functions (VNFs) [128] illustrate how these virtualized functions can be integrated, chained, and managed across distributed infrastructures. These findings emphasize the pivotal role of virtualization in promoting scalability, resource efficiency, and multi-domain isolation. Additionally, experimental and system-level stud-ies [115,134] further confirm the viability of merging SDN and NFV within heterogeneous optical and packet networks, reinforcing their practicality in real-world ap-plications. 

Key Takeaways: NFV and virtualization facilitate flexible service deployment and logical isolation, serving as foundational elements for multi-domain systems that operate over shared physical infrastructure. 8 Quang Cao 1 et al.                 

> Table 8 Summary of Reviewed Literature
> Theme Covered Papers Identified Gap
> Software-Defined Networking (SDN), Network Function Virtu-alization (NFV), and Network Slicing [3, 51, 15, 127, 76, 63, 115, 134, 12, 122, 35, 9, 96, 26, 17, 113, 92, 44, 109, 71, 2, 126, 128, 117, 21, 131, 19, 22, 123, 120, 84, 36, 67, 24, 10, 61, 66, 14, 75, 43] Lack of support for real-time, operator-centric voice communication; no mechanisms for multi-domain voice mixing, per-domain transmit con-trol, or strict non-interference guarantees. Cross-Domain, Multi-Domain, and Heterogeneous [129, 121, 110, 64, 78, 23, 70, 72, 25, 31, 86] Focus on authentication, routing, and policy en-forcement; lack of real-time multi-domain com-munication, operator interaction, and scalable bidirectional secure voice channels. Command, Control, and Military Systems (C2/C4ISR) [83, 73, 119, 1, 34, 80, 104, 114, 91, 108, 95, 103, 125, 75, 100, 60] Voice communication treated as infrastructure, not operator interface; no support for simulta-neous multi-domain voice interaction or secure audio isolation. Cybersecurity, Threat Detection, and Policy [69, 45, 82, 135, 39] Strong foundations in identity, MLS, and cryp-tography, but limited to single-domain or application-level systems; no support for multi-domain voice workflows or audio-level separation. Secure IoT Architecture and Pol-icy Control [99, 36, 77, 57, 33] Focus on device- and data-centric security; no support for operator-centric communication, real-time voice mixing, or domain-level audio control. Foundational Security and Assur-ance [38, 54, 107, 130] Provide policy, isolation, and validation princi-ples, but lack application to real-time commu-nication systems, especially multi-domain voice and non-interference guarantees.

Theme 3: Network Slicing and 5G/6G Infrastruc-tures. Network slicing has emerged as a vital mech-anism for establishing logically isolated domains tai-lored to specific service requirements. Foundational and survey works [126,123,66] articulate slicing architec-tures, guarantees of isolation, and security considera-tions. Application-driven studies [21,14,15] showcase the implementation of slicing in mission-critical and healthcare scenarios, highlighting its ability to satisfy constraints related to latency, reliability, and security. Experimental validation [117] substantiates the feasi-bility of resource allocation within slicing environments. Furthermore, broader 5G/6G vision papers [3,127,51] identify slicing as a fundamental capability of next-generation networks. 

Key Takeaways: Network slicing enables the creation of multiple logically isolated networks using shared in-frastructure, effectively establishing virtual air gaps that support a range of applications while ensuring high per-formance and scalability. 

Theme 4: Security, Policy, and Trust Management. 

Numerous studies concentrate on policy enforcement, trust, and secure management within software-defined environments. Policy-based architectures [10,120] offer mechanisms for defining and enforcing access and con-trol rules. Security frameworks and trust-based systems [131,19,84,67] illustrate how Software-Defined Network-ing (SDN) can incorporate security policies, Quality of Experience (QoE), and automated management in dynamic settings. Fine-grained access control mechanisms, such as Hash Flow [22], exemplify how SDN can implement domain-specific permissions, while IoT-focused security management [36] underscores the applicability of SDN in diverse and distributed environments. 

Key Takeaways: Policy-driven control and security frameworks facilitate programmable enforcement of ac-cess, trust, and communication constraints, which are crucial for effectively managing interactions across mul-tiple domains. 

Theme 5: Related Networking Concepts. Recent re-search expands the concepts of software-defined net-working (SDN) and slicing to encompass wide-area and multi-domain environments. Surveys on SD-WAN [92] and multi-domain control architectures [113,71] focus on the management of geographically distributed networks. Studies centered on tactical and military applications [75,43] illustrate how SDN and slicing can facilitate mission-critical, multi-domain communication systems, emphasizing essential requirements such as resilience, interoperability, and secure coordination. 

Key Takeaways: The application of software-defined networking is increasingly relevant in large-scale, dis-tributed, and mission-critical settings, showcasing its effectiveness for multi-domain operations. SoK: Secure Software-Based Multi-Domain Data Segregation 9

Gap Analysis: A consistent conclusion emerges from the reviewed studies. Software-Defined Networking (SDN) Network Functions Virtualization (NFV) and network slicing collectively provide a solid technical foundation for logical multi-domain separation. This enables pro-grammable control, flexible service deployment, and scal-able isolation over shared infrastructure. However, the majority of these analyses primarily focus on network-level abstractions, data flows, and service orchestration. Importantly, none of the studies address the specific requirements for secure real-time operator-centric Voice Communication Systems (VCS). Key capabilities such as simultaneous monitoring across multiple domains, per-domain transmission control, secure voice mixing, and stringent non-interference guarantees have not been considered. Additionally, while slicing and virtualization can approximate logical isolation, they do not deliver the assurance levels necessary to replace traditional air-gapped systems in high-security environments. This highlights a fundamental gap. Despite the potential of software-defined technologies to support multi-domain networking, their application in the realm of secure real-time voice communication remains largely uncharted. 

3.3.2 Cross Domain, Multi-domain, and Heterogeneous 

Cross domain research investigates techniques and archi-tectures that facilitate controlled interactions between different security domains. This includes mechanisms for authentication, guard-based enforcement, and trust es-tablishment [121,64,72,129]. Collectively, these studies illustrate how secure communication and coordination can be achieved across domain boundaries. 

Theme 1: Cross-Domain Authentication and Trust Establishment. A significant body of research focuses on authentication protocols and trust mechanisms within cross-domain environments [121,64,72]. These studies propose lightweight, privacy-preserving authentication schemes that leverage a combination of cryptographic primitives (e.g., AES, RSA), zero-knowledge proofs, blockchain integration, and distributed storage solutions. They demonstrate that secure and efficient authentica-tion across domains is achievable, even in highly dynamic environments such as 5G heterogeneous networks and Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT) systems. 

Key Takeaways: These works lay a robust founda-tion for secure, efficient, and privacy-preserving cross-domain authentication. However, it is important to note that they are primarily designed for user or device au-thentication and do not adequately address real-time, operator-centric communication or stringent domain isolation requirements. 

Theme 2: Cross-Domain Communication and Coor-dination. The exploration of cross-domain interaction is further enhanced through routing and coordination frameworks [129,31]. These studies illustrate how trust-aware routing, crowdsourced decision-making, and the integration of satellite and terrestrial networks can facil-itate communication across diverse and geographically distributed domains. They underscore the critical impor-tance of scalability, adaptability, and trust management in effectively coordinating resources across multiple do-mains. 

Key Takeaways: These methods promote efficient data exchange and coordination across domains, primar-ily focusing on network-layer optimization and resource management. However, they fall short of offering mech-anisms for secure and simultaneous interaction across multiple domains in real-time communication systems. 

Theme 3: Cross-Domain Policy Enforcement and Guard Architectures. Traditional cross-domain solutions depend on guard-based architectures and stringent pol-icy enforcement mechanisms [110]. These systems fa-cilitate controlled information flow between domains through isolation, inspection, and filtering mechanisms, often bolstered by separation kernels and secure com-munication protocols such as IPsec. 

Key Takeaways: The guard model is unidirectional (classified to unclassified) and designed for constrained management messaging, not for high-throughput, real-time, or bidirectional communication. It assumes static message schemas and predictable traffic, limiting adapt-ability to dynamic, multi-domain systems. Scalability for simultaneous domains or high-rate streaming appli-cations, such as real-time voice communication, is not considered. 

Theme 4: Multi-Domain Security, Defense, and Re-silience. Numerous studies focus on broader strategies for resilience and defense in multi-domain systems [23, 70,86]. These include game-theoretic models for resilient command and control, zero-trust architectures aimed at preventing lateral movement, and conceptual analyses of the evolution of the cyber domain. Collectively, these works underscore the growing complexity and strategic significance of multi-domain operations. 

Key Takeaways: These studies offer valuable insights into resilience, threat modeling, and defense strategies across various domains. However, they tend to be primar-ily conceptual or network-centric and do not thoroughly address operator-level interactions or the requirements for real-time communication. 

Theme 5: Multi-Domain Access Control and Policy-Based Management. The topic of access control and policy enforcement across domains is explored through programmable and agent-based frameworks [78]. These 10 Quang Cao 1 et al. 

approaches illustrate how to systematically manage per-missions and interactions across multiple administrative domains. 

Key Takeaways: Policy-based management facilitates structured and programmable control of cross-domain interactions. Nevertheless, these mechanisms are not specifically designed for real-time communication con-trol or for ensuring strict isolation between concurrent domain interactions. 

Theme 6: Heterogeneous and Multi-Layer Network Integration. Heterogeneous environments add complex-ity due to the integration of diverse technologies, pro-tocols, and operational contexts [72,25,31]. Research in this field includes privacy-preserving authentication within heterogeneous networks, adaptive key manage-ment for quantum multi-domain systems, and integrated space-air-ground networking. These studies emphasize the need for flexible routing, adaptive cryptographic mechanisms, and coordinated control across multiple layers. 

Key Takeaways: Heterogeneous networks require ro-bust authentication, flexible routing, and adaptive secu-rity policies across diverse technologies. Cryptography, blockchain, and federated monitoring provide essential tools to enable secure cross-domain operations. 

Gap Analysis: While significant advances have been made in cross-domain authentication, trust, routing, and policy enforcement, no existing research addresses secure, real-time multi-domain voice communication. Current work focuses primarily on data exchange, traffic management, resource orchestration, and policy control. None provide mechanisms for operators to simultane-ously monitor multiple security domains, nor do they support software-defined domain separation capable of replacing traditional two-domain, air-gapped architec-tures. Features such as secure voice mixing, per-domain transmit control, and strong non-interference guarantees for multi-domain audio flows remain unaddressed. Even cross-domain guard architectures are limited to low-bandwidth, two-domain environments and cannot meet the latency, throughput, or covert-channel requirements of modern Voice Communication Systems. 

3.3.3 Command, Control, and Military Systems (C2/C4ISR) 

Research on Command and Control (C2) and C4ISR systems establishes the architectural, operational, and security foundations essential for modern military and mission-critical environments. The studies in this cat-egory collectively focus on the design of systems-of-systems, interoperability, secure communications, and the advancement of tactical networks through software-defined, cloud-enabled, and multi-domain paradigms [83, 73,119,1,34,80,104,114,91,108,95,103,125,75,100,60]. 

Theme 1: Command and Control (C2). Foundational research delineates methodologies, architectural frame-works, and interoperability mechanisms for large-scale C2 systems [83,73,119]. These studies underscore the importance of mission-oriented analysis, layered sys-tem design from hardware to user interface and the integration of diverse components through interoper-ability adapters and distributed communication models. They frame C2 systems as complex, evolving systems-of-systems that necessitate scalability, modularity, and cross-domain coordination. 

Key Takeaways: These works describe how C2 sys-tems can be architected, integrated, and validated as complex, distributed systems-of-systems. They empha-size interoperability, standard data models, and robust networking for collaborative operations. However, com-munication services, including voice, are treated as un-derlying infrastructure, without guidance on secure, multi-domain operator voice interfaces. 

Theme 2: Security of C3I/C4ISR and Tactical Net-works. A substantial body of research examines the se-curity challenges and defensive measures within military communication systems [1,104,125,60]. These studies analyze vulnerabilities, attack vectors, and countermea-sures in C3I/C4ISR environments, advocating for multi-layered and data-centric security strategies. Concepts such as distributed MILS and fine-grained information protection emphasize the significance of strong isolation and controlled information flow across varying classifi-cation levels. 

Key Takeaways: These studies illustrate that contem-porary military systems necessitate robust, multi-layered security and strong isolation assurances. However, they predominantly focus on system-level and data-centric security, often overlooking the real-time communication requirements at the operator level. 

Theme 3: Multi-Domain Security and Information Sharing. Numerous studies have explored secure infor-mation exchange and management across various do-mains [34,114,95]. These works propose architectures and frameworks designed to enforce release policies, manage multi-domain services, and facilitate controlled information sharing in federated and coalition environ-ments. 

Key Takeaways: These approaches illustrate that se-cure interactions across multiple domains are achievable through effective policy enforcement and management-plane integration. However, the focus remains primarily on data exchange and service coordination, rather than enabling simultaneous, real-time operator interaction across domains. SoK: Secure Software-Based Multi-Domain Data Segregation 11 

Theme 4: SDN, 5G, and Next-Generation Military Networking. Emerging research delves into the integra-tion of Software-Defined Networking (SDN), 5G, and cloud/edge technologies within military networks [80, 108,75,103,91,100]. These studies illustrate how software-defined control, network programmability, and distributed computing can enhance flexibility, scalability, and re-silience in tactical environments. They demonstrate that modern communication infrastructures are capable of supporting dynamic mission requirements and multi-domain operations through virtualization and orchestra-tion. 

Key Takeaways: These technologies establish a ro-bust foundation for modernizing military communica-tion systems and facilitating flexible, multi-domain oper-ations. However, the focus remains primarily on network services, resource orchestration, and infrastructure-level optimization rather than on communication mechanisms that are operator-facing. 

Gap Analysis: Current research in C2/C4ISR ar-chitectures and military communications focuses on system-of-systems design, interoperability, distributed networking, and modernized tactical networks using SDN, 5G, and cloud/edge technologies [83,73,119,1,34, 80,104,114,91,108,95,103,125,75]. While these works address interoperability, policy enforcement, multi-domain information sharing, and network-level security, they generally treat voice communication as an underlying infrastructure rather than as a critical operator interface. No existing studies provide mechanisms for secure, real-time multi-domain voice communication that allow oper-ators to monitor and transmit across multiple classified domains simultaneously. Furthermore, current architec-tures and security frameworks do not address software-defined domain separation, per-domain transmit control, voice mixing, or strong non-interference guarantees, all of which are essential for modern operator-centric C2 environments. Additionally, research on cloud-native and edge computing infrastructures demonstrates how distributed computing resources, services, and policies can be orchestrated to achieve resilience, high perfor-mance, and assurance in mission-critical or military environments [100]. This study shows that virtualiza-tion and the cloud–edge continuum can enable scalable and flexible multi-domain operations. However, these investigations primarily focus on data flows, resource management, and general service orchestration, neglect-ing the specific challenges of operator-facing, real-time multi-domain voice communication, including secure voice mixing, per-domain transmit control, and low-latency, high-assurance audio delivery. 

3.3.4 Cybersecurity, Threat Detection, and Policy 

This section synthesizes literature on essential cyberse-curity mechanisms, including identity federation, access control, multilevel security architectures, secure com-munication protocols, and formal assurance frameworks [69,45,82,135,39]. Collectively, these studies establish foundational principles necessary for enforcing security policies and safeguarding sensitive communications in complex, high-assurance environments. 

Theme 1: Identity Federation and Access Control. 

The management of identity and authentication across distributed systems is effectively addressed through multi-protocol federation frameworks [69]. These frame-works facilitate interoperability among various identity standards (e.g., SAML, OpenID) and support unified authentication mechanisms across services, such as Sin-gle Sign-On (SSO). They illustrate how consistency in authentication and secure identity propagation can be upheld across heterogeneous environments. 

Key Takeaways: Identity federation offers scalable and interoperable authentication across systems, repre-senting a critical component within secure multi-domain environments. Nevertheless, these mechanisms primarily emphasize user authentication and session establishment and fall short in addressing real-time communication control or domain-level interactions. 

Theme 2: Multilevel Security and Policy Enforce-ment. The exploration of multilevel security (MLS) and policy-based control is facilitated through middleware-driven architectures and management frameworks [135]. These studies elucidate how centralized control and lay-ered security policies can effectively enforce separation across various classification levels within a unified sys-tem. 

Key Takeaways: MLS and policy enforcement mech-anisms provide structured control over information flow and access across different security levels. However, their operation is primarily at the system and data levels, without adequately addressing real-time communication flows or operator-centric interactions across multiple domains. 

Theme 3: Secure Communication. Secure commu-nication in mission-critical environments is reinforced by precedence-based communication models and spe-cialized cryptographic techniques [45,39]. These studies demonstrate how communication priority can be main-tained in secure IP networks and how voice data can be safeguarded through advanced encryption methods that integrate time- and frequency-domain transformations. 

Key Takeaways: These approaches ensure confiden-tiality and the prioritization of critical communications, which are vital for mission-critical systems. However, 12 Quang Cao 1 et al. 

they primarily focus on securing individual communi-cation channels and do not address the management of multiple simultaneous communications across domains. 

Theme 4: Formal Assurance and Certification. For-mal assurance processes are analyzed through method-ologies for constructing rigorous security arguments [82]. These frameworks facilitate the certification and valida-tion of high-assurance systems by providing structured reasoning about the security properties of systems. 

Key Takeaways: Formal assurance techniques are cru-cial for validating security-critical systems and achieving certification in high-assurance environments. Yet, they remain largely abstract and do not directly confront the implementation challenges faced in multi-domain communication systems. 

Gap Analysis: A consistent limitation emerges across the reviewed literature [69,45,82,135,39]. Existing stud-ies offer robust foundations for identity management, multilevel security, policy enforcement, secure commu-nication, and system assurance. These mechanisms are effective in enforcing security policies and protecting data within single-domain or application-level contexts. However, none of these studies address the requirements for secure, real-time multi-domain voice communication. Specifically, capabilities such as simultaneous monitoring of multiple domains, per-domain transmission control, secure voice mixing, and strict non-interference guar-antees remain unexamined. While identity federation, MLS, and cryptographic techniques provide essential building blocks, they do not encompass operator-centric communication workflows within multi-domain environ-ments. This underscores a fundamental gap between established cybersecurity mechanisms and the require-ments for secure, real-time, multi-domain voice commu-nication systems. 

3.3.5 Secure IoT Architecture and Policy Control 

This section synthesizes a body of research focused on security, trust, and policy enforcement within Internet of Things (IoT), Industrial IoT (IIoT), and the Internet of Battlefield Things (IoBT) environments [99,36,77, 57,33]. Collectively, these studies investigate software-defined networking (SDN)-enabled architectures, edge and fog computing frameworks, trust evaluation mecha-nisms, and distributed policy enforcement mechanisms across expansive, heterogeneous systems. 

Theme 1: Trust Management. The issue of trust-worthiness in distributed IoT and IoBT landscapes is addressed through SDN-integrated trust evaluation frameworks [99]. These methodologies assess the behav-ior of devices, enabling the enforcement of trust-aware decisions through centralized control planes. Such ap-proaches facilitate the secure participation of devices in mission-critical scenarios. 

Key Takeaways: The trust evaluation mechanisms examined provide a solid foundation for securing de-vice interactions within large-scale distributed systems. However, the focus is predominantly on device-level as-surance and neglects aspects related to operator-level communication or interactions that span multiple do-mains. 

Theme 2: SDN-Based Security Management and Pol-icy Enforcement. A number of studies have elucidated how SDN facilitates centralized security management and policy enforcement across distributed IoT environ-ments [36,77]. These architectures effectively decouple control and data planes while integrating access control mechanisms, such as role-based access control (RBAC) and token-based authentication. Policies are enforced through distributed enforcement points, including gate-ways and edge nodes. 

Key Takeaways: SDN-based control frameworks af-ford flexible and programmable enforcement of security policies across heterogeneous systems. While these ap-proaches prove effective for access control and overall system management, they fail to address real-time com-munication flows or multi-domain interactions at the operator level. 

Theme 3: Edge/Fog Computing. The exploration of edge and fog computing paradigms aims to enhance scalability, reduce latency, and bolster resilience in IoT systems [57,33]. The findings demonstrate that com-putation and security functions can be situated nearer to devices while maintaining centralized coordination through SDN. Key aspects such as monitoring, scala-bility, and reliability are underscored in the context of wide-area IoT deployments. 

Key Takeaways: Edge and fog architectures promote scalable and responsive control within geographically distributed environments. Nevertheless, the emphasis re-mains on data processing and system efficiency, thereby neglecting secure, real-time communication between hu-man operators across domains. 

Gap Analysis: Existing research in IoT, IIoT, and IoBT security provides strong foundations for trust man-agement, policy enforcement, and distributed control through SDN-based architectures, edge/fog comput-ing, and context-aware security policies [99,77,57,33, 36]. These studies demonstrate how to secure heteroge-neous, geographically distributed systems and manage resources and policies across multiple nodes. However, they primarily focus on device- and data-centric security and do not address operator-facing multi-domain voice communication, including secure real-time voice mix-ing, per-domain transmit paths, and software-enforced SoK: Secure Software-Based Multi-Domain Data Segregation 13 

domain separation. The concepts of trust evaluation, SDN control, and edge/fog placement have not been applied to the challenges of securing operator-centric multi-domain voice channels. 

3.3.6 Foundational Security and Assurance 

This cluster addresses high-level mechanisms for policy enforcement, system isolation, and verification/validation in complex networked and operational environments [38, 54,107,130]. Collectively, these works provide founda-tional guidance for enforcing resource and access policies, achieving strong isolation, and ensuring system correct-ness in distributed and multi-domain systems. 

Theme 1: Policy-Based Control. Policy-driven method-ologies for resource allocation and admission control are analyzed within the context of evolving and next-generation networks [38]. These investigations elucidate how access, quality of service (QoS), and system behav-ior can be governed through dynamic policy frameworks, thereby facilitating adaptable and context-aware control across distributed environments. 

Key Takeaways: The implementation of policy-based control offers a flexible mechanism for enforcing access and resource constraints across varied domains. Nev-ertheless, these approaches predominantly operate at the network and service levels and do not sufficiently address application-specific requirements, such as real-time voice control or domain-specific communication constraints. 

Theme 2: System Isolation and Trusted Computing Foundations. The concept of strong isolation is examined through operating system–level mechanisms, including lightweight capability domains [54]. These strategies aim to minimize the trusted computing base (TCB) while enforcing fine-grained separation among system components, thus providing a solid foundation for high-assurance systems. 

Key Takeaways: Fine-grained isolation mechanisms facilitate robust separation within complex systems, sup-porting secure multi-domain operations. However, these mechanisms primarily concern process and memory isola-tion, leaving communication-level separation, especially for real-time data streams, such as voice insufficiently addressed. 

Theme 3: Interoperability and System Validation. 

The verification of system correctness and interoperabil-ity is thoroughly investigated through comprehensive testing frameworks and validation methodologies [107, 130]. These studies illustrate how complex systems, in-cluding those conforming to military standards, can be validated for compliance, correctness, and operational reliability. 

Key Takeaways: Rigorous testing and validation pro-cedures are indispensable for ensuring system reliabil-ity and certification in high-assurance environments. Nonetheless, existing methodologies predominantly fo-cus on functional correctness and interoperability, rather than verifying real-time behavior or enforcing non inter-ference within multi-domain communication systems. 

Gap Analysis: Research in policy-based control, sys-tem isolation, and verification/validation provides foun-dational methods for enforcing access, resource, and security policies in complex, multi-domain, and military-oriented systems [38,54,107,130]. These works demon-strate how high-assurance separation, lightweight ca-pability domains, and rigorous verification and valida-tion methods can support secure, distributed operations. However, they are generic and focus on data or system-level interactions rather than operator-facing voice com-munication. Specifically, there is no research addressing per-domain audio isolation, one-hot transmit mecha-nisms, secure voice mixing, or verifiable non-interference for multi-domain voice systems. 

4 Discussion 

A review of recent literature reveals a significant gap in the application of advanced networking and security technologies to real-time voice communication systems. In particular, there is currently no comprehensive, se-cure, software-based solution that enables robust multi-domain data segregation for Voice Communication Sys-tems (VCS). Existing approaches largely rely on tradi-tional air-gapped architectures to achieve high assurance separation. However, the technologies examined in this SoK each provide partial building blocks toward this transition. Collectively, they contribute foundational mechanisms that can support the gradual evolution from rigid, isolated infrastructures (air-gapped) to flexible, software-based, yet still high-assurance, multi-domain voice communication architectures in different layers of security. 4.1 Network Isolation Layer Network separation technologies play a critical role in Voice Communication Systems (VCS), particularly in high-assurance environments where each communica-tion flow must be strictly segregated from the operator position to its designated destination domain. In such contexts, logical and virtualized isolation mechanisms must provide strong guarantees that traffic from one security domain cannot interfere with or leak into an-14 Quang Cao 1 et al. 

other, while still maintaining real-time performance and operational flexibility [36]. 

Software Defined Networking (SDN) represents a mature and programmable approach to network sep-aration. Large-scale deployments such as Google’s B4 WAN architecture [50,55] demonstrate that SDN can operate at hyperscale with high reliability and perfor-mance. By decoupling the control and data planes, SDN enables centralized policy enforcement, dynamic Access Control List (ACL) updates, and fine-grained micro-segmentation, which are particularly valuable in multi-domain VCS environments. Although centralized control introduces a potential single point of compromise, it also allows rapid security patching and coordinated traffic engineering. From a cost perspective, SDN leverages commodity switching hardware and open-source con-trollers, making it economically attractive, while its flow-level programmability supports high throughput and responsive traffic management across domains [44, 109]. 

Network Virtualization (NV) further enhances separation by abstracting logical networks over shared physical infrastructure. Widely adopted in cloud plat-forms such as Amazon Web Services and Microsoft Azure, NV uses overlay encapsulation mechanisms (e.g., VXLAN [74], GRE [41], Geneve [47]) to provide multi-tenant isolation. In VCS deployments, this enables the creation of logically independent communication planes for different operational or security domains while shar-ing the same hardware. Security in NV depends largely on hypervisor correctness and virtual switch enforce-ment; although not equivalent to physical air gaps, it has been extensively validated in commercial environments. NV offers high feasibility and scalability with moderate cost, making it a practical solution for segregating traffic in distributed, software-defined architectures [2]. 

Network Slicing (NS), standardized within the 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) 5G framework, extends virtualization concepts by enabling multiple service-specific logical networks to coexist on a com-mon infrastructure [93,46]. Each slice can be tailored to distinct performance and reliability requirements, such as ultra-low latency, high bandwidth, or mission-critical reliability, characteristics highly relevant to VCS in multi-domain operations. While slicing enforces logi-cal isolation through virtualization layers, it still relies on shared physical resources, raising assurance consid-erations in high-security deployments. Nevertheless, it offers efficient resource utilization, strong configurabil-ity, and high performance, positioning it as a promising approach for future multi-domain VCS architectures where strict separation and service differentiation must coexist [21,14,126]. 

IPsec serves as a key mechanism for protecting segregated voice traffic in multi-domain networks by providing network-layer confidentiality, integrity, au-thentication, and anti-replay protection. Standardized in RFC 4301, IPsec faces long-term security challenges due to quantum computing advancements, particularly from Shor’s algorithm, which threatens widely used asymmetric cryptographic schemes such as RSA and ECDSA [7,8]. In response, the development of PQC-IPsec integrates quantum-resistant algorithms into In-ternet Key Exchange (IKE) processes, driven by the National Institute of Standards and Technology’s (NIST) post-quantum standardization efforts [89]. This includes new Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS) such as FIPS 203 (ML-KEM) [88] for general encryp-tion and FIPS 204 (ML-DSA) [87] for digital signatures. While PQC-IPsec significantly enhances security for high-assurance voice communication systems, it intro-duces moderate performance overhead and still requires improvements in implementation and interoperability compared to classical IPsec [52]. Nonetheless, it marks a crucial step in securing network architectures in the post-quantum era [112]. 4.2 Platform Isolation Layer 

Separation kernels provide a high-assurance isola-tion platform that can replaces traditional air-gapped infrastructures by minimizing the Trusted Computing Base (TCB) and enforcing strict partitioning of sys-tem components. Introduced by John Rushby in 1981, this concept underpins the Multiple Independent Lev-els of Security (MILS) framework and operates as a minimal hypervisor that creates logically isolated parti-tions on shared hardware [102]. Each partition functions autonomously while the kernel controls inter-partition communication, ensuring properties such as data separa-tion, information flow control, temporal separation, and fault isolation, all encapsulated in the NEAT principles (Non-bypassable, Evaluatable, Always-invoked, Tamper-proof). Widely adopted in avionics and achieving high assurance through certifications such as Common Cri-teria (CC) and DO-178C [101,58], separation kernels (e.g., INTEGRITY-178B and LynxSecure, etc., in Table 9) demonstrate their effectiveness in meeting stringent safety and security requirements [132]. Unlike traditional air gaps requiring separate hardware, separation kernels allow multiple secure domains to coexist on the same processor while maintaining strict logical isolation, thus significantly reducing hardware overhead. Their compact size makes them amenable to rigorous mathematical ver-ification, positioning separation kernels as scalable and SoK: Secure Software-Based Multi-Domain Data Segregation 15 

credible alternatives for secure, multi-domain, real-time communication without sacrificing assurance. 

Table 9 Comparison of Separation Kernel Implementations (Sec.: Security, Saf.: Safety, RT: Realtime) [132]                                                                                                                      

> #Name Sec. Saf. RT Certification/ Compliance Formal Methods Industrial Implementations
> 1PikeOS ✓✓✓DO-178B Level B, IEC 61508 SIL 3, EN 50128 SIL 4, ARINC 653
> ✓
> 2VxWorks 653 ×✓✓DO-178B/C Level A, ARINC 653 ?3VxWorks MILS ✓××SKPP, CC, DO-178C Level A ?4INTEGRITY-178B ✓✓✓DO-178B Level A, CC EAL 6+/SKPP, AR-INC 653
> ✓
> 5INTEGRITY Mult. ✓××Unknown ?6LynxSecure ✓✓✓CC EAL 7, DO-178B Level A ?7LynxOS-178 ✓×✓DO-178B Level A, ARINC 653 ?8DDC-I Deos ×✓✓DO-178B Level A, ARINC 653 ?9AAMP7a ✓✓N/A CC EAL 7 ✓
> 10 ED ✓✓×CC ✓
> 11 ARLX Hyper. ✓×✓DO-178B Level A, MILS EAL, IEC 61508 ?
> Academic Implementations
> 12 seL4 ✓××None ✓
> 13 OKL4 Micro. ✓✓×None ✓
> 14 XtratuM ×✓✓ARINC 653 ✓
> 15 PROSPER ✓✓✓None ×
> 16 Xenon ✓×✓None ✓
> 17 Quest-V ✓×✓None ×
> 18 Muen ✓✓×None ✓
> 19 POK ✓×✓ARINC 653 ×
> 20 AIR/AIR II ✓✓✓ARINC 653 ×

4.3 Security Service Layer 

Access Control is essential in multi-domain VCS, reg-ulating access to operator consoles, signaling services, and classified voice channels to ensure that only authen-ticated and authorized personnel, services, or devices can engage in communication across different security domains. It encompasses two dimensions: physical ac-cess control, which secures facilities using measures such as biometric authentication, and logical access control, which manages digital resources through techniques such as MFA and access control lists (ACLs). A robust access control framework includes identification to establish unique identities, authentication to verify them, prefer-ably using MFA, authorization to dictate permissible actions based on security policies, and auditing to log ac-tivities for traceability. For high-assurance environments, Mandatory Access Control (MAC) is effective, while Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) simplifies privilege management by assigning permissions based on roles, and Attribute-Based Access Control (ABAC) refines access decisions by considering user attributes and envi-ronmental conditions. Ultimately, effective VCS access control integrates MAC, RBAC, and ABAC approaches to ensure both security and operational reliability [40, 94]. 

Cross Domain Solutions (CDS) form the founda-tion for securely connecting networks at different clas-sification levels in multi-domain Voice Communication Systems (VCS). They manage risks associated with information transfer by blocking all inter-domain in-formation flow by default and allowing only explicitly authorized data to pass through security enforcement points, preventing leakage of classified voice streams and information. A secure CDS architecture relies on lay-ered enforcement mechanisms across physical, network, and application layers, guided by key security objec-tives: confidentiality, integrity, availability, authenticity, and accountability. CDS can bridge Unclassified, Secret, and Top Secret networks for monitoring voice traffic, transferring approved recordings, or consolidating audit data. Without proper CDS controls, interconnections risk exposing sensitive voice data to lower classification levels, increasing unauthorized access potential. CDS technologies include access solutions, transfer solutions, and Multi-Level Security (MLS) systems, supporting secure VCS interoperability. In a software-defined multi-domain VCS architecture, CDS act as a trusted bridge between isolated security domains, enabling operational interoperability while preserving the confidentiality, in-tegrity, and availability of sensitive communications [111, 6]. 

Cross Domain Guard is essential for enforcing data traffic policies to prevent unauthorized disclosure of classified information by blocking accidental and in-tentional transmissions with specific indicators [110]. In a VCS environment, where operational commands and session metadata may contain classification markings, the guard serves as a critical checkpoint for inter-domain exchanges. It scans for dirty words such as secret and classification tags within signaling data. When XML formats are used for session control or configuration, the guard validates messages against an approved XML schema, rejecting any that deviate from the specified structure. This schema enforcement is vital for main-taining signaling integrity and operational security in VCS environments [110]. Auditability is also crucial. Error messages and rejected transmissions are sent to a dedicated audit component via unidirectional links, ensuring no data flows back into the protected domain. 16 Quang Cao 1 et al. 

Access to audit records is limited to authorized adminis-trators, maintaining accountability and domain isolation [110]. Additionally, to address potential buffer overflow in the guard, an external buffer can be implemented upstream to regulate traffic flow and notify senders of capacity limits, ensuring continuity of operations with-out compromising the guard’s integrity [110]. Overall, the Cross Domain Guard facilitates secure interoper-ability in multi-domain VCS architectures, balancing operational effectiveness with the protection of classified information. 

5 Conclusion 

This SoK paper synthesizes the security implications of transitioning Voice Communication Systems (VCS) from hardware-enforced isolation to a software-based segregation model. It highlights that evolving from tra-ditional air-gapped architectures to software-defined, multi-domain VCS can be achieved through the in-tegration of network separation mechanisms such as Software-Defined Networking (SDN), slicing, network virtualization, as well as separation kernels and cross-domain solutions. By combining PQC with IPsec, the paper underscores the importance of long-term confi-dentiality, while MILS-compliant kernels provide robust isolation guarantees. Together, these technologies create a high-assurance foundation for secure data segregation, enabling scalable and flexible architectures without com-promising mission-critical security or real-time perfor-mance. Furthermore, this SoK identifies significant re-search gaps, notably the scarcity of unified architectural frameworks that systematically integrate these technolo-gies and the limited empirical validation in realistic multi-domain VCS environments. Addressing these gaps will represent the next phase of this research, focusing on designing an integrated framework and developing a prototype to assess security, performance, and deploy-ment trade-offs, thereby bridging the divide between conceptual feasibility and practical implementation. 

Acknowledgements The initiative partnered C4i Pty Ltd with RMIT University, Melbourne, Australia. 

References 

1. Ahmad, H., Dharmadasa, I., Ullah, F., Babar, M.A.: A review on c3i systems’ security: Vulnerabil-ities, attacks, and countermeasures. arXiv preprint 

arXiv:2104.11906 (2021). URL https://arxiv.org/ abs/2104.11906 

2. Alam, I., Sharif, K., Li, F., Latif, Z., Karim, M.M., Biswas, S., Nour, B., Wang, Y.: A survey of network virtualization techniques for internet of things using sdn and nfv. ACM Computing Surveys (CSUR) 53 (2), 1–40 (2020) 3. Alfaqawi, M., Gateau, M., Huard, P., Reungoat, P., Le Mercier, M.C., Davai, S., Ben Mabrouk, M.: A com-prehensive study on 5g: Ran architecture, enabling tech-nologies, challenges, and deployment. In: M.A. Matin (ed.) A Glimpse Beyond 5G in Wireless Networks, Signals and Communication Technology, pp. 1–57. Springer In-ternational Publishing, Cham, Switzerland (2023). DOI 10.1007/978-3-031-13786-0 1 4. Alves-Foss, J., Oman, P.W., Taylor, C., Harrison, W.S.: The mils architecture for high-assurance embedded sys-tems. International journal of embedded systems 2(3-4), 239–247 (2006) 5. ASD: Fundamentals of Cross Domain Solutions (2021). URL https://www.cyber.gov.au/sites/ default/files/2025-03/Fundamentals%20of%20Cross% 20Domain%20Solutions%20%28October%202021%29.pdf 

6. ASD: Introduction to Cross Domain Solutions (2021). URL https://www.cyber.gov.au/sites/ default/files/2025-03/Introduction%20to%20Cross% 20Domain%20Solutions%20%28October%202021%29.pdf 

7. ASD: Guidelines for cryptography (2025). URL 

https://www.cyber.gov.au/business-government/ asds-cyber-security-frameworks/ ism/cybersecurity-guidelines/ guidelines-for-cryptography 

8. ASD: Information security manual (2025). URL 

https://www.cyber.gov.au/sites/default/files/ 2025-09/Information%20security%20manual%20% 28September%202025%29.pdf 

9. Bastin, N., McGeer, R.: Programmable, Controllable Networks. In: R. McGeer, M. Berman, C. Elliott, R. Ricci (eds.) The GENI Book, pp. 149–178. Springer International Publishing, Cham (2016). DOI 10.1007/ 978-3-319-33769-2 8. URL https://doi.org/10.1007/ 978-3-319-33769-2_8 

10. Bert´ o-Monle´ on, R., Casini, E., van Engelshoven, R., Goode, R., Tuchs, K.D., Halmai, T.: Specification of a policy based network management architecture. In: 2011-MILCOM 2011 Military Communications Confer-ence, pp. 1393–1398. IEEE (2011) 11. Bholebawa, I.Z., Dalal, U.D.: Performance analysis of sdn/openflow controllers: Pox versus floodlight. Wireless Personal Communications 98 (2), 1679–1699 (2018) 12. Bonfim, M.S., Dias, K.L., Fernandes, S.F.: Integrated nfv/sdn architectures: A systematic literature review. ACM Computing Surveys (CSUR) 51 (6), 1–39 (2019) 13. Booth, A., Martyn-St James, M., Clowes, M., Sutton, A.: Systematic Approaches to a Successful Literature Review, 3rd edn. SAGE Publications Ltd, London (2021) 14. Borsatti, D., Grasselli, C., Contoli, C., Micciullo, L., Spinacci, L., Settembre, M., Cerroni, W., Callegati, F.: Mission critical communications support with 5g and network slicing. IEEE Transactions on Network and Service Management 20 (1), 595–607 (2022) 15. Borsatti, D., et al.: Mission critical communications sup-port with 5g and network slicing. In: IEEE (or related conference/workshop) / peer-reviewed manuscript (post-print available) (2023). Postprint available (IRIS / insti-tutional repository) 16. C4i: Solutions for secure communications (2026). URL 

https://www.c4i.com/en/about-us 

17. Cafini, R., Cerroni, W., Raffaelli, C., Savi, M.: Security issues in programmable routers for future internet. In: Trustworthy Internet, pp. 17–30. Springer (2011) SoK: Secure Software-Based Multi-Domain Data Segregation 17 18. Cai, Z.: Maestro: Achieving scalability and coordination in centralizaed network control plane. Rice University (2012) 19. de la Calera Molina, E.G., Garc´ ıa, S.C., Murcia, J.M.B., Zarca, A.M., G´ omez, A.F.S.: Cerberus: Towards se-cure and automated multi-operator management in b5g through a dynamic policy-based zsm framework. Journal of Network and Systems Management 34 (1), 18 (2026) 20. Celdr´ an, A.H., P´ erez, M.G., Clemente, F.J.G., Ippoliti, F., P´ erez, G.M.: Dynamic network slicing management of multimedia scenarios for future remote healthcare. Multimedia Tools and Applications 78 (17), 24707–24737 (2019) 21. Celdr´ an, A.H., P´ erez, M.G., Clemente, F.J.G., Ippoliti, F., P´ erez, G.M.: Dynamic network slicing management of multimedia scenarios for future remote healthcare. Multimedia Tools and Applications 78 (17), 24707–24737 (2019) 22. Chang, S.H., Pei, Y., Chung, P.T.: Hash flow: An access control mechanism for software defined network. In: Workshops of the International Conference on Advanced Information Networking and Applications, pp. 554–565. Springer (2020) 23. Chen, J., Zhu, Q.: A games-in-games approach to mosaic command and control design of dynamic network-of-networks for secure and resilient multi-domain operations. In: Sensors and Systems for Space Applications XII, vol. 11017, pp. 189–195. SPIE (2019) 24. Chen, M., Qian, Y., Mao, S., Tang, W., Yang, X.: Software-defined mobile networks security. Mobile Net-works and Applications 21 (5), 729–743 (2016) 25. Chen, X., Cao, Y., Chen, Y., Yang, S., Liu, Y., Wang, Y., Guo, M., Yu, X., Zhao, Y., Wang, Q.: Secret key rate-adaptive inter-domain key service provisioning in heterogeneous protocol-based multi-domain quantum networks. Journal of Optical Communications and Net-working 17 (10), 950–966 (2025) 26. Chowdhary, A., Huang, D., Ahn, G.J., Kang, M., Kim, A., Velazquez, A.: Sdnsoc: Object oriented sdn frame-work. In: Proceedings of the ACM International Work-shop on Security in Software Defined Networks & Net-work Function Virtualization, pp. 7–12 (2019) 27. Controller, O.: Snac (simple network access control) (2011) 28. Corps, U.M.: NATO SECURITY BRIEF-ING FOREWORD (2005). URL https: //www.information.marines.mil/Portals/224/Docs/ Newcomers/NATO-Security-Briefing.pdf 

29. Criteria, C.: Common Criteria for Information Technology Security Evaluation - Part 3: Se-curity assurance components (2017). URL 

https://www.commoncriteriaportal.org/files/ ccfiles/CCPART3V3.1R5.pdf 

30. Daigle, J., Langford, J.: Models for analysis of packet voice communications systems. IEEE Journal on selected areas in communications 4(6), 847–855 (2003) 31. Davoli, F.: Satellite networking in the context of green, flexible and programmable networks. In: International Conference on Personal Satellite Services, pp. 1–11. Springer (2016) 32. Del Amo, I.F., Erkoyuncu, J.A., Roy, R., Palmarini, R., Onoufriou, D.: A systematic review of augmented reality content-related techniques for knowledge transfer in maintenance applications. Computers in Industry 

103 , 47–71 (2018) 33. Delkhosh, M., Javidan, R.: Toward a robust wan-scale iot-fog networks: A distributed sdn security architecture encompassing monitoring, scalability, reliability, and se-curity. Iranian Journal of Science and Technology, Trans-actions of Electrical Engineering pp. 1–18 (2025) 34. Domingo, A., Wietgrefe, H.: An applied model for secure information release between federated military and non-military networks. In: Proceedings of the IEEE Military Communications Conference (MILCOM), pp. 465–470 (2015). DOI 10.1109/MILCOM.2015.7357486. URL 

https://doi.org/10.1109/MILCOM.2015.7357486 

35. Duan, Q., Zeng, M., Huang, J., Xing, C.c.: Performance analysis for a service delivery platform in software defined network. In: Proceedings of the 30th Annual ACM Sym-posium on Applied Computing, pp. 2257–2262 (2015) 36. El Jaouhari, S., Bouabdallah, A., Corici, A.A.: Sdn-based security management of multiple wot smart spaces. Jour-nal of Ambient Intelligence and Humanized Computing 

12 (10), 9081–9096 (2021) 37. Erickson, D.: The beacon openflow controller. In: Pro-ceedings of the second ACM SIGCOMM workshop on Hot topics in software defined networking, pp. 13–18 (2013) 38. Esteve Rothenberg, C., Roos, A.: A review of policy-based resource and admission control functions in evolv-ing access and next generation networks. Journal of Network and Systems Management 16 (1), 14–45 (2008) 39. Faragallah, O.S., Farouk, M., El-sayed, H.S., El-bendary, M.A.: Speech cryptography algorithms: utilizing fre-quency and time domain techniques merging. Journal of Ambient Intelligence and Humanized Computing 15 (10), 3617–3649 (2024) 40. Farhadighalati, N., Estrada-Jimenez, L.A., Nikghadam-Hojjati, S., Barata, J.: A systematic review of access control models: Background, existing research, and chal-lenges. IEEE Access (2025) 41. Farinacci, D., Li, T., Hanks, S., Meyer, D., Traina, P.: Generic Routing Encapsulation (GRE). RFC 2784, In-ternet Engineering Task Force (IETF) (2000). URL 

https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc2784 

42. Ferguson, P., Senie, D.: Network ingress filtering: De-feating denial of service attacks which employ ip source address spoofing. RFC 2827, Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) (1998) 43. Gomes, J.E.C., Ehlert, R.R., Boesche, R.M., San-tosde Lima, V., Stocchero, J.M., Barone, D.A., Wick-boldt, J., de Freitas, E.P., dos Anjos, J.C., de Araujo Fer-nandes, R.Q.: Surveying emerging network approaches for military command and control systems. ACM Com-puting Surveys 56 (6), 1–38 (2024) 44. Gong, Y., Huang, W., Wang, W., Lei, Y.: A survey on software defined networking and its applications. Fron-tiers of Computer Science 9(6), 827–845 (2015) 45. Goode, R., Ulsh, C., Tarr, J., DeSimone, T., McKenica, R.: Attaining precedence-based communications in se-cure ip networks. In: MILCOM 2007-IEEE Military Communications Conference, pp. 1–7. IEEE (2007) 46. Grings, F.H., Bruno, G.Z., Prade, L.R., Both, C.B., Brito, J.M.C.: Nasp: Network slice as a service platform for 5g networks. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.24051 (2025) 47. Gross, J., Ganga, I., Sridhar, T., et al.: Geneve: Generic network virtualization encapsulation. IETF draft (2020). URL https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/rfc8926/ 

48. Gude, N., Koponen, T., Pettit, J., Pfaff, B., Casado, M., McKeown, N., Shenker, S.: Nox: towards an oper-ating system for networks. ACM SIGCOMM computer communication review 38 (3), 105–110 (2008) 49. Guri, M., Kedma, G., Kachlon, A., Elovici, Y.: Airhop-per: Bridging the air-gap between isolated networks and 18 Quang Cao 1 et al. mobile phones using radio frequencies. In: 2014 9th International Conference on Malicious and Unwanted Software: The Americas (MALWARE), pp. 58–67. IEEE (2014) 50. Hong, C.Y., Mandal, S., Al-Fares, M., Zhu, M., Alimi, R., B, K.N., Bhagat, C., Jain, S., Kaimal, J., Liang, S., et al.: B4 and after: managing hierarchy, partition-ing, and asymmetry for availability and scale in google’s software-defined wan. In: Proceedings of the 2018 Con-ference of the ACM Special Interest Group on Data Communication, pp. 74–87 (2018) 51. Husen, A., Chaudary, M.H., Ahmad, F.: A survey on requirements of future intelligent networks: Solutions and future research directions. ACM Computing Surveys 

55 (4), 73:1–73:61 (2023) 52. Iliadis-Apostolidis, D., Lawo, D.C., Kosta, S., Monroy, I.T., Olmos, J.J.V.: Qrons: Quantum resilience over ipsec tunnels for network slicing. Electronics 14 (21), 4234 (2025) 53. ISO/IEC: Information security, cybersecurity and pri-vacy protection — Evaluation criteria for IT se-curity — Part 1: Introduction and general model (2022). URL https://www.iso.org/obp/ui/en/#iso: std:iso-iec:15408:-1:dis:ed-5:v1:en 

54. Jacobsen, C., Khole, M., Spall, S., Bauer, S., Burtsev, A.: Lightweight capability domains: towards decomposing the linux kernel. In: Proceedings of the 8th Workshop on Programming Languages and Operating Systems, pp. 8–14 (2015) 55. Jain, S., Kumar, A., Mandal, S., Ong, J., Poutievski, L., Singh, A., Venkata, S., Wanderer, J., Zhou, J., Zhu, M., et al.: B4: Experience with a globally-deployed software defined wan. ACM SIGCOMM Computer Communica-tion Review 43 (4), 3–14 (2013) 56. Jayawardena, C., Chen, J., Bhalla, A., Bu, L.: Compar-ative analysis of pox and ryu sdn controllers in scalable networks. arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.12770 (2025) 57. Jazaeri, S.S., Jabbehdari, S., Asghari, P., Haj Seyyed Javadi, H.: Edge computing in sdn-iot networks: a systematic review of issues, challenges and solutions. Cluster Computing 24 (4), 3187–3228 (2021) 58. Johnson, L.A., et al.: Do-178b: Software considerations in airborne systems and equipment certification. Crosstalk, October 199 , 11–20 (1998) 59. Jorquera Valero, J.M., Sanchez Sanchez, P.M., Lekidis, A., Fernandez Hidalgo, J., Gil Perez, M., Siddiqui, M.S., Huertas Celdran, A., Martinez Perez, G.: Design of a security and trust framework for 5g multi-domain sce-narios. Journal of Network and Systems Management 

30 (1), 7 (2022) 60. Kampichler, W., Steiner, W., Eier, D.: Distributed mils: A novel approach to advanced atm communication ser-vices. In: 2013 Integrated Communications, Naviga-tion and Surveillance Conference (ICNS), pp. 1–8. IEEE (2013) 61. Kazmi, S.H.A., Qamar, F., Hassan, R., Nisar, K., Chowdhry, B.S.: Survey on joint paradigm of 5g and sdn emerging mobile technologies: Architecture, security, challenges and research directions. Wireless Personal Communications 130 (4), 2753–2800 (2023) 62. Keele, S., et al.: Guidelines for performing systematic literature reviews in software engineering. Tech. rep., Technical report, ver. 2.3 ebse technical report. ebse (2007) 63. Keshari, S.K., Kansal, V., Kumar, S.: A systematic review of quality of services (qos) in software de-fined networking (sdn). Wireless Personal Commu-nications 116 (3), 2593–2614 (2021). DOI 10.1007/ s11277-020-07812-2. URL https://doi.org/10.1007/ s11277-020-07812-2 

64. Khalid, H., Hashim, S.J., Ahmad, S.M.S., Hashim, F., Chaudhary, M.A.: A lightweight and secure online/offline cross-domain authentication scheme for vanet systems in industrial iot. PeerJ Computer Science 7, e714 (2021) 65. Kitchenham, B., Charters, S.: Guidelines for Per-forming Systematic Literature Reviews in Software Engineering. Tech. Rep. EBSE-2007-01, Keele University and University of Durham, Keele, UK (2007). URL https://www.elsevier.com/__data/ promis_misc/525444systematicreviewsguide.pdf 

66. Kotulski, Z., Nowak, T.W., Sepczuk, M., Tunia, M., Artych, R., Bocianiak, K., Osko, T., Wary, J.P.: Towards constructive approach to end-to-end slice isolation in 5g networks. EURASIP Journal on Information Security 

2018 (1), 2 (2018) 67. Krishnan, P., Jain, K., Jose, P.G., Achuthan, K., Buyya, R.: Sdn enabled qoe and security framework for multi-media applications in 5g networks. ACM Transactions on Multimedia Computing, Communications, and Ap-plications (TOMM) 17 (2), 1–29 (2021) 68. Levin, E., Zaynal, S.: Voice communication system for air traffic control-development and evaluation of a proto-type. Master’s thesis, Chalmers University of Technology (2011) 69. Li, M., Chi, C.H., Ding, C., Wong, R., She, Z.: A multi-protocol authentication shibboleth framework and im-plementation for identity federation. In: International Conference on Security and Privacy in Communication Systems, pp. 81–101. Springer (2018) 70. Li, T., Pan, Y., Zhu, Q.: Decision-dominant strategic defense against lateral movement for 5g zero-trust multi-domain networks. In: Network Security Empowered by Artificial Intelligence, pp. 25–76. Springer (2024) 71. Li, W., Zhao, J., Fan, H., Zhu, S., Liang, W., Yu, H., Lin, P.: Design of general sdn controller system framework for multi-domain heterogeneous networks. In: International Conference on Computational & Experimental Engineer-ing and Sciences, pp. 1195–1209. Springer (2023) 72. Liu, G., Li, H., Wang, N., Chen, B., Le, J., Liu, Y., Xiang, T.: Pecha: Privacy-preserving and efficient cross-domain handover authentication for heterogeneous net-works. IEEE Transactions on Dependable and Secure Computing (2024) 73. Lundberg, J., Andersson, K.: Surveying emerging net-work approaches for military command and control sys-tems. Tech. Rep. FOI-R–5157–SE, FOI (2021) 74. Mahalingam, M., Dutt, D., Duda, K., Agarwal, P., Kreeger, L., Sridhar, T., Bursell, M., Wright, C.: Virtual Extensible Local Area Network (VXLAN): A Framework for Overlaying Virtualized Layer 2 Networks over Layer 3 Networks. RFC 7348, Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) (2014). URL https://datatracker.ietf.org/ doc/html/rfc7348 

75. Mahmud, R., Toosi, A.N., Rodriguez, M.A., Madanapalli, S.C., Sivaraman, V., Sciacca, L., Sioutis, C., Buyya, R.: Software-defined multi-domain tactical networks: Foun-dations and future directions. In: Mobile Edge Comput-ing, pp. 183–227. Springer (2021) 76. Maleh, Y., Qasmaoui, Y., El Gholami, K., Sadqi, Y., Mounir, S.: A comprehensive survey on sdn security: threats, mitigations, and future directions. Journal of Reliable Intelligent Environments 9(2), 201–239 (2023) 77. Mao, M., Yi, P., Hou, L., Zhao, W.: A controller-based roadside unit plane architecture for software-defined in-SoK: Secure Software-Based Multi-Domain Data Segregation 19 ternet of vehicles. Cluster Computing 27 (2), 1235–1249 (2024) 78. Mart´ ınez-Garc´ ıa, C., Navarro-Arribas, G., Borrell, J., Mart´ ın-Campillo, A.: An access control scheme for multi-agent systems over multi-domain environments. In: 7th International Conference on Practical Applications of Agents and Multi-Agent Systems (PAAMS 2009), pp. 401–410. Springer (2009) 79. Medved, J., Varga, R., Tkacik, A., Gray, K.: Openday-light: Towards a model-driven sdn controller architecture. In: Proceeding of IEEE international symposium on a world of wireless, mobile and multimedia networks 2014, pp. 1–6. IEEE (2014) 80. Mishra, V.K., Verma, D.C., Williams, C.: Improving security in coalition tactical environments using an sdn approach. In: Guide to Security in SDN and NFV: Chal-lenges, Opportunities and Applications, pp. 273–298. Springer (2017). DOI 10.1007/978-3-319-64653-4 \ 11. URL https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-64653-4_ 11 

81. Moher, D., Liberati, A., Tetzlaff, J., Altman, D.G.: Pre-ferred reporting items for systematic reviews and meta-analyses: the prisma statement. Bmj 339 (2009) 82. Moore, A.P., Klinker, J.E., Mihelcic, D.M.: How to con-struct formal arguments that persuade certifiers. In: Industrial-Strength Formal Methods in Practice, pp. 285– 314. Springer (1999) 83. Morin, M.: Methodology for collecting and analyzing user requirements: Mission-oriented analysis. In: Pro-ceedings of the 24th International Command and Control Research and Technology Symposium (ICCRTS) (2019) 84. Muzafar, S., Jhanjhi, N., Talib, M.N.: Sdn based network management and security in 6g networks. In: 2025 Inter-national Conference on Metaverse and Current Trends in Computing (ICMCTC), pp. 1–6. IEEE (2025) 85. Na, M.R., Sundharakumar, K.: A study on air-gap net-works. In: 2024 5th International Conference on Inno-vative Trends in Information Technology (ICITIIT), pp. 1–6. IEEE (2024) 86. Nichols, R.A.: Cyber progression of the domains of war-fare. In: International Conference on Computational Sci-ence and Computational Intelligence, pp. 64–76. Springer (2024) 87. NIST: Module-Lattice-Based Digital Signature Standard (2024). URL https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/ fips/nist.fips.204.pdf 

88. NIST: Module-Lattice-Based Key-Encapsulation Mech-anism Standard (2024). URL https://nvlpubs.nist. gov/nistpubs/fips/nist.fips.203.pdf 

89. NIST: Post-Quantum Cryptography (2025). URL https: //www.nist.gov/pqcrypto 

90. Oppliger, R.: Internet security: firewalls and beyond. Communications of the ACM 40 (5), 92–102 (1997) 91. Ou, X., Liao, J., Chen, K., Hu, Z.: Research on the middle platform service system of battlefield data gover-nance information based on 5g technology. In: 2021 3rd International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Advanced Manufacture, pp. 512–517 (2021) 92. Ouamri, M.A., Alharbi, T., Singh, D., Sylia, Z.: A com-prehensive survey on software-defined wide area network (sd-wan): principles, opportunities and future challenges. The Journal of Supercomputing 81 (1), 291 (2025) 93. Park, K., Sung, S., Kim, H., Jung, J.i.: Technology trends and challenges in sdn and service assurance for end-to-end network slicing. Computer Networks 234 , 109908 (2023) 94. PCI: PCI DSS Quick Reference Guide (2018). URL https://listings.pcisecuritystandards.org/ documents/PCI_DSS-QRG-v3_2_1.pdf 

95. Poltronieri, F., Campioni, L., Lenzi, R., Morelli, A., Suri, N., Tortonesi, M.: Secure multi-domain information sharing in tactical networks. In: MILCOM 2018-2018 IEEE Military Communications Conference (MILCOM), pp. 1–6. IEEE (2018) 96. Poularakis, K., Tassiulas, L., Lakshman, T.: SDN Data Plane Optimization, pp. 73–127. Springer In-ternational Publishing, Cham (2021). DOI 10.1007/ 978-3-031-02382-8 3. URL https://doi.org/10.1007/ 978-3-031-02382-8_3 

97. Prete, L.R., Shinoda, A.A., Schweitzer, C.M., De Oliveira, R.L.S.: Simulation in an sdn net-work scenario using the pox controller. In: 2014 IEEE Colombian Conference on Communications and Computing (COLCOM), pp. 1–6. Ieee (2014) 98. Prisaznuk, P.J.: Integrated modular avionics. In: Pro-ceedings of the IEEE 1992 National Aerospace and Elec-tronics Conference@ m NAECON 1992, pp. 39–45. IEEE (1992) 99. Rivera, A.O.G., White, E.M., Acosta, J.C., Tosh, D.: Enabling device trustworthiness for sdn-enabled internet-of-battlefield things. In: 2022 IEEE Conference on De-pendable and Secure Computing (DSC), pp. 1–7. IEEE (2022) 100. Rojas, E., Lopez-Pajares, D., Alvarez-Horcajo, J., Llopis S´ anchez, S.: The cloud continuum for military deployable networks: Challenges and opportunities. In: European Symposium on Research in Computer Security, pp. 500–519. Springer (2022) 101. RTCA Special Committee 167: DO-178B: Software Con-siderations in Airborne Systems and Equipment Cer-tification. Standard, Radio Technical Commission for Aeronautics (RTCA), Washington, D.C., USA (2011). Revised version of the original 1992 standard 102. Rushby, J.M.: Design and verification of secure systems. ACM SIGOPS Operating Systems Review 15 (5), 12–21 (1981) 103. Saha, S., Low, W., Di Martino, B.: Sustainment of mili-tary operations by 5g and cloud/edge technologies. In: International Conference on Advanced Information Net-working and Applications, pp. 70–79. Springer (2023) 104. Sahu, K., Kumar, R., Srivastava, R.K., Singh, A.K.: Military computing security: Insights and implications. Journal of The Institution of Engineers (India): Series B pp. 1091–1115 (2024). DOI 10.1007/s40031-024-01136-6. URL https://doi.org/10.1007/s40031-024-01136-6 

105. Sasaki, T., Pappas, C., Lee, T., Hoefler, T., Perrig, A.: Sdnsec: Forwarding accountability for the sdn data plane. In: 2016 25th International Conference on Computer Communication and Networks (ICCCN), pp. 1–10. IEEE (2016) 106. Sasaki, T., Perrig, A., Asoni, D.E.: Control-plane isola-tion and recovery for a secure sdn architecture. In: 2016 IEEE NetSoft Conference and Workshops (NetSoft), pp. 459–464. IEEE (2016) 107. Sch¨ obel, A., Klotz, P., Zaschke, C., Essendorfer, B.: How to test interoperability of different implementations of a complex military standard. In: Advances in Software Engineering, Education, and e-Learning: Proceedings from FECS’20, FCS’20, SERP’20, and EEE’20, pp. 545– 555. Springer (2021) 108. Rodrigues da Silva, C.A., de Souza Silva, L., Santos dos Anjos, J.C., Matiuzzi Stocchero, J., Wickboldt, J., Pig-naton de Freitas, E.: Sdn supported network state aware 20 Quang Cao 1 et al. command and control application framework. In: Interna-tional Conference on Advanced Information Networking and Applications, pp. 448–459. Springer (2024) 109. Singh, S., Jha, R.K.: A survey on software defined net-working: Architecture for next generation network. Jour-nal of Network and Systems Management 25 (2), 321–374 (2017) 110. Steinmetz, P.: Use of cross domain guards for consis network management. In: 2012 Military Communications and Information Systems Conference (MCC), pp. 1–5. IEEE (2012) 111. Sundaravarathan, V., Alqalaf, H., Siddiqui, A., Kim, K., Lee, S., Reisslein, M., Thyagaturu, A.S., Ross, N., Howard, J., Tayal, S.: Cross-domain solutions (cds): A comprehensive survey. Ieee Access 12 , 163551–163620 (2024) 112. Tariq, Z., e Zainab, B., Hussain, M.Z.: Evaluating the effectiveness and resilience of ssl/tls, https, ipsec, ssh, and wpa/wpa2 in safeguarding data transmission. UCP Journal of Engineering & Information Technology 1(2), 01–07 (2023) 113. Thottan, M., Di Martino, C., Kim, Y.J., Atkinson, G., Choi, N., Mohanasamy, N., Jagadeesan, L., Mendiratta, V., Simsarian, J.E., Kozicki, B.: The network os: Carrier-grade sdn control of multi-domain, multi-layer networks. Bell Labs Technical Journal 24 , 1–26 (2019) 114. Tuchs, K.D., Halmai, T., van Selm, M.: Multi-security domain management integration architecture for end-to-end service management in military networks. In: Proceedings of the IEEE Military Communications Conference (MILCOM), pp. 1375–1380 (2011). DOI 10.1109/MILCOM.2011.6127835. URL https://dblp. org/rec/conf/milcom/TuchsHS11.html 

115. Tzanakaki, A., Anastasopoulos, M., Rofoee, B., Peng, S., Zervas, G., Nejabati, R., Simeonidou, D., Landi, G., Bernini, G., Monno, R., et al.: Converged wireless ac-cess/optical metro networks in support of cloud and mobile cloud services deploying sdn principles. In: Fiber-Wireless Convergence in Next-Generation Communica-tion Networks: Systems, Architectures, and Management, pp. 359–388. Springer (2017) 116. Ullah, F., Edwards, M., Ramdhany, R., Chitchyan, R., Babar, M.A., Rashid, A.: Data exfiltration: A review of external attack vectors and countermeasures. Journal of Network and Computer Applications 101 , 18–54 (2018) 117. Vilalta, R., Mu˜ noz, R., Casellas, R., Mart´ ınez, R., Li, F., Tang, P.: Experimental validation of resource allocation in transport network slicing using the adrenaline testbed. Photonic Network Communications 40 (2), 82–93 (2020) 118. Voellmy, A., Wang, J.: Scalable software defined network controllers. In: Proceedings of the ACM SIGCOMM 2012 conference on Applications, technologies, architectures, and protocols for computer communication, pp. 289–290 (2012) 119. van der Wal, R., Veldhuis, R., van den Berg, J., Scholten, G., de Jong, A.: Unified camelot interoperability adapters for existing unmanned command and control systems. Tech. Rep. TNO 2019 R11680, TNO (2019) 120. Waller, A., Johnson, J.: Policy based network manage-ment in high assurance environments. In: IEEE Global Telecommunications Conference, 2004. GLOBECOM’04., vol. 4, pp. 2151–2157. IEEE (2004) 121. Wang, M., Zhao, D., Yan, Z., Wang, H., Li, T.: Xauth: Secure and privacy-preserving cross-domain handover authentication for 5g hetnets. IEEE Internet of Things Journal 10 (7), 5962–5976 (2022) 122. Wang, S., Wu, J., Yang, W., Guo, L.h.: Novel architec-tures and security solutions of programmable software-defined networking: a comprehensive survey. Frontiers of Information Technology & Electronic Engineering 

19 (12), 1500–1521 (2018) 123. Wichary, T., Mongay Batalla, J., Mavromoustakis, C.X., ˙Zurek, J., Mastorakis, G.: Network slicing security con-trols and assurance for verticals. Electronics 11 (2), 222 (2022) 124. Woodcock, J., Larsen, P.G., Bicarregui, J., Fitzgerald, J.: Formal methods: Practice and experience. ACM computing surveys (CSUR) 41 (4), 1–36 (2009) 125. Wrona, K.: Towards data-centric security for nato op-erations. In: International Conference on Digital Trans-formation, Cyber Security and Resilience, pp. 75–92. Springer (2020) 126. Yamany, S., Contreras, L.M., Toy, M.: Network slicing and management. In: Future Networks, Services and Management, pp. 261–287. Springer International Pub-lishing AG, Switzerland (2021) 127. You, X., Wang, C.X., Huang, J., Gao, X., et al.: Towards 6g wireless communication networks: vision, enabling technologies, and new paradigm shifts. Science China Information Sciences 64 (1), 1–74 (2021). DOI 10.1007/ s11432-020-2955-6 128. Zhang, B., Fan, Q., Zhang, X., Fu, Z., Wang, S., Li, J., Xiong, Q.: A survey of vnf forwarding graph embedding in b5g/6g networks. Wireless Networks 30 (5), 3735–3758 (2024) 129. Zhang, J., Yan, Z., Dong, H., Zhang, P.: Crowdrout-ing: trustworthy and customized cross-domain routing based on crowdsourcing. Digital Communications and Networks 11 (3), 734–756 (2025) 130. Zhang, M., Zhang, R., Yang, M.: Research on verification and validation of operational software program models. In: Proceedings of the 2024 2nd International Conference on Artificial Intelligence, Systems and Network Security, pp. 143–147 (2024) 131. Zhang, Y., Gong, B., Wu, Y., Zheng, G., Diao, Z.: A trusted remote data trading scheme in hybrid sdn for intelligent internet of things. Wireless Communications and Mobile Computing 2023 (1), 7463722 (2023) 132. Zhao, Y., San´ an, D., Zhang, F., Liu, Y.: High-assurance separation kernels: a survey on formal methods. arXiv preprint arXiv:1701.01535 (2017) 133. Zhao, Y., Yang, Z., Ma, D.: A survey on formal specifi-cation and verification of separation kernels. Frontiers of Computer Science 11 (4), 585–607 (2017) 134. Zhou, Y., Yin, S., Guo, B., Huang, H., Li, W., Zhang, M., Huang, S.: Experimental demonstration of software-defined optical network for heterogeneous packet and optical networks. Photonic Network Communications 

32 (2), 329–335 (2016) 135. Zou, Y.: Implementation of multi-level network security management system based middleware strategy. Interna-tional Journal of Security and Its Applications 10 (10), 77–88 (2016) 

A Software Defined Networking (SDN) 

Software Defined Networking (SDN) emerged as a necessary re-sponse to the longstanding limitations of traditional networks. These legacy systems suffered from the rigidity of vertically integrated devices, where control logic (the decision-making process for directing traffic) and the data forwarding plane (the SoK: Secure Software-Based Multi-Domain Data Segregation 21 physical transmission of traffic) were tightly coupled within each router and switch. This inflexibility created challenges, making networks difficult and slow to evolve. Every device required manual configuration, policies were enforced incon-sistently, and introducing new protocols often necessitated costly hardware upgrades throughout the entire infrastructure [76, 44, 109, 36]. SDN addresses this rigid, device-centric approach by sepa-rating the network’s control plane from its data plane. Instead of each router making independent routing decisions, SDN consolidates all control logic into a single, logically centralized controller. This change allows network switches to focus solely on forwarding packets according to the rules provided by the controller, which is done instantly and automatically. The result is a programmable network that is easier to manage and much more adaptable to modern demands [76, 44, 109, 36]. By centralizing control, SDN eliminates the tedious and error-prone task of manually configuring each device. Network policies are set at the controller, which automatically and con-sistently distributes rules across all switches. This approach removes the need for unique, proprietary management proto-cols, resulting in a flexible and automated operational model that reduces human error, speeds up deployment, and simpli-fies configuration and troubleshooting. The SDN controller provides a global network view, allowing it to coordinate es-sential functions such as access control, flow scheduling, load balancing, and security policies. Achieving this level of con-sistency is often difficult in traditional distributed networks. Additionally, the abstraction layers of SDN enable applications to view the network as a unified system, enhancing application-driven performance. Advococacy for open standards such as OpenFlow addresses vendor lock-in, allowing easy integration of equipment from multiple vendors. This openness enables researchers and enterprises to test new protocols without hard-ware modifications, fostering the development of innovative network applications. Such vendor independence has driven significant adoption within modern data centers and cloud networks [76, 44, 109, 36]. 

A.1 SDN Architecture 

The Open Networking Foundation outlines three core ideas that define Software-Defined Networking (SDN) [105, 106]: 1. Decoupled Control and Forwarding: 

SDN separates the logic that determines how traffic should be handled from the hardware that actually forwards pack-ets. Even with this separation, the control logic continues to interact with and influence the forwarding devices. 2. Logically Centralized Control: 

Rather than relying on distributed decision-making across individual devices, SDN employs a central controller that maintains a global view of the network. This unified per-spective enables consistent policy enforcement and reduces delays caused by local configuration. 3. Programmable Network Abstractions: 

SDN exposes abstracted representations of network re-sources and state, enabling external applications to pro-gram the network without dealing with device-specific details. These principles are reflected in the SDN architectural design, which is typically organized into three planes: 

Data plane: 

The Data plane (or Infrastructure layer) is responsible for the high-speed forwarding of network traffic. It comprises the physical network equipment, such as switches and routers, and the internal components and APIs that handle packet processing. The core functionality of a network device in this plane is to receive packets at its ports and execute specific network functions based on rules provided by the Control Plane. This includes actions such as forwarding the packet to an egress port, dropping the packet, or modifying its header [76, 44, 109, 36]. 

Control plane: 

The control layer of Software-Defined Networking (SDN) is built around the SDN controller, which centralizes network intelligence and operates similarly to a network operating system. The controller manages flow tables on switches and routers through the Southbound API, with OpenFlow being the most widely used protocol. Through a secure channel, the controller installs, updates, and removes forwarding rules on OpenFlow-enabled devices [76, 44, 109, 36]. A variety of SDN controllers exist, differing in language, threading models, OpenFlow support, and performance char-acteristics. Key examples include [76, 44, 109, 36]: 

– NOX [48]: The first public SDN controller, implemented in C. 

– POX [97]: A Python-based controller derived from NOX, aimed at improving usability and performance. 

– Maestro [18]: A multi-threaded controller that distributes tasks efficiently to support parallel processing. 

– Beacon [37]: A Java-based, multi-threaded, modular con-troller developed at Stanford, designed for cross-platform use. 

– SNAC [27]: A controller with a web-based interface for configuring rules and managing events. 

– Floodlight [11]: A lightweight, high-performance version of Beacon, supported by major vendors such as Intel, Cisco, HP, and IBM. 

– McNettle [118]: Built with Nettle (a DSL in Haskell), designed for low-latency, high-performance operation on multi-core servers. 

– Ryu [56]: A Python controller supporting OpenFlow 1.5 and enabling domain separation without VLANs. 

– OpenDaylight [79]: A Java-based, open-source, cross-platform controller using OSGi and REST APIs, supported by industry partners such as IBM, NEC, Cisco, and Erics-son. 

Application plane: 

The Application Plane is the highest level in the SDN architecture, representing the set of software programs and utilities that configure, control, and monitor the network’s behavior. This layer enables the implementation of crucial network management rules and services through various appli-cations, such as Intrusion Detection Systems (IDS), firewalls, and load balancing. Crucially, it promotes automation by in-teracting with the centralized SDN Controller via northbound APIs, typically using protocols such as REST (Representa-tional State Transfer), allowing service providers to dictate network policy and abstracting the underlying network com-plexities. Sitting above the Control Plane, the Application Plane uses these APIs to access and interpret network status information provided by the controller, enabling applications to manipulate physical network elements indirectly for so-phisticated services such as security monitoring and traffic engineering [76, 44, 109, 36]. 

B Network Slicing 

Network slicing builds on virtualization by creating end-to-end, service-specific virtual networks tailored to different perfor-22 Quang Cao 1 et al. mance or security requirements. Each slice functions as an independent logical network with its own control, data, and management characteristics, even while sharing the same phys-ical infrastructure. This approach is essential in modern sys-tems such as 5G, mission-critical communications, and multi-domain environments. Network slicing enables fine-grained cus-tomization and efficient resource allocation, allowing providers to support diverse use cases without deploying separate phys-ical networks [21, 14, 126]. 

B.1 Vertical Slicing 

Vertical slicing is a key principle in 5G architecture, allowing for the creation of customized end-to-end logical networks tailored to specific industry needs. Each slice covers multi-ple network layers, such as access, transport, and core do-mains, designed for particular use cases such as automotive systems and industrial automation. These slices maintain dis-tinct service-level attributes, including latency, throughput, reliability, and security, ensuring isolation to prevent per-formance degradation. This isolation is vital for delivering specialized services over shared infrastructure, supporting the Network-as-a-Service (NaaS) paradigm for flexible, Service-Level Agreement (SLA)-driven offerings [52]. 

B.2 Horizontal Slicing 

Horizontal slicing involves resource partitioning within a sin-gle network layer, such as the radio access network (RAN) or transport network. It enables multiple virtualized functions to operate simultaneously, focusing on resource sharing and management rather than end-to-end service delivery. This ap-proach supports scenarios requiring infrastructure sharing and dynamic scaling, key to Software-Defined Networking (SDN) and Network Functions Virtualization (NFV). For instance, vertical baseband units in the RAN can share hardware while maintaining distinct performance profiles, enhancing network flexibility and cost-effectiveness [52]. 

B.3 Static Slicing 

Static slicing configures network slices during the design phase, keeping them fixed throughout operation. Each slice has a predetermined set of resources and performance metrics opti-mized for specific services. While it simplifies administration, static slicing is less adaptable to demand fluctuations, risking inefficient utilization and making it difficult to accommodate new services without manual reconfiguration. Although impor-tant in early network slicing, its limitations are more evident in today’s dynamic 5G environments, prompting a shift towards more adaptive solutions [52]. 

B.4 Dynamic Slicing 

Dynamic slicing allows networks to create, modify, and re-move slices in real-time based on user demand and network conditions. Unlike static slicing, it employs automation and AI-driven management for efficient resource provisioning with minimal human input. This flexibility is crucial for modern applications such as connected vehicles and IoT deployments, enhancing resource efficiency and reducing operational costs. Dynamic slicing requires real-time monitoring and orchestra-tion, representing a significant advancement in network slicing, especially for future 6G networks accommodating variable ser-vices and stringent SLAs [52]. 

C Cross Domain Solution (CDS) 

Cross Domain Solution (CDS) is a system that includes se-curity mechanisms specifically designed to manage the risks associated with accessing or transferring information between different security domains. A CDS is designed to block the flow of information between different security domains by default, permitting only specific data to pass through security enforcement points when it fully complies with the defined security policy. The security-enforcing functions within a CDS can be implemented using separate hardware or software com-ponents, and the system’s architecture must ensure that these components cannot be bypassed [6]. A secure CDS implementation ensures that the security policies of all connected domains are consistently enforced across every physical and logical layer of the connection. There-fore, it is essential that the information security objectives are clearly understood before the design or implementation of a CDS begins. These objectives include [5]: 

– Confidentiality: Ensuring that information is disclosed only to authorized entities. 

– Integrity: Ensuring that information and systems cannot be modified without proper authorization. 

– Availability: Ensuring that systems remain accessible and usable by authorized entities whenever required. 

– Authenticity: Ensuring that the identity of a user, pro-cess, or device is verified before granting access to system resources. 

– Accountability: Ensuring that the origin and integrity of data can be verified, and that any authenticated actions cannot be repudiated (also known as non-repudiation). The secure design and operation of a CDS can only be achieved if every stage of the system lifecycle produces outputs that are traceable to the security requirements derived from these objectives. Typical CDS applications include importing publicly avail-able data from an official network into a SECRET-level analy-sis system, combining multiple classified desktop environments into a single interface, or gathering inputs from various classi-fied systems into a single central auditing platform [6]. When CDS controls are not properly enforced, connec-tions between different security domains can be exploited by malicious actors. This can result in unauthorised access, theft or alteration of sensitive information, and the compromise of system or data integrity. Weak enforcement may also enable attackers to bypass critical security functions, disrupt essen-tial systems or services, and use less-protected networks as pathways to reach more sensitive environments [6]. The National Cross Domain Strategy and Management Office (NCDSMO) delineates three categories of Cross Domain Solutions (CDS): access, transfer, and Multi-Level Security (MLS) solutions. These classifications are based on the varying types of interactions that CDS devices have with data, which can be categorized according to different security levels or classifications [111]. SoK: Secure Software-Based Multi-Domain Data Segregation 23 

C.1 Access 

Access refers to a type of Cross-Domain Solution (CDS) used when a client in an untrusted or low-side domain needs to view information from a trusted high-side domain, or vice versa. These solutions allow users to see data without allowing any actual data transfer between the domains, thereby helping to prevent information leaks. For example, an employee at the Arizona State University (ASU) Tempe campus (low side) who needs to view specific data stored at the ASU Research Enterprise (ASURE), which works on defence and space sys-tems (high side), could use an access CDS to securely view that information across domains [111]. Before Cross-Domain Solutions (CDS), secure data shar-ing across domains relied on a manual Swivel Chair Setup. Staff used separate desktops for each domain and retyped information between systems. CDS were created to automate and streamline these labour-intensive processes for domains with different trust levels (e.g., top secret, secret, unclassified), though their design and accreditation are complex and mostly used in military and commercial settings [111]. A CDS can be hardware, software, or both, providing iso-lation between domains while enabling controlled information flow. An access CDS lets a user in one domain view data in an-other without transferring it. A transfer CDS securely moves or copies data between domains. An MLS solution labels and manages both users and data across multiple classification or trust levels [111]. In everyday language, accessing often means both viewing and downloading data, but CDS terminology separates these clearly. With an access CDS, only encrypted keyboard/mouse input goes to the remote desktop and encrypted display data returns; files never leave the remote environment. Thus, in CDS terms, accessing can mean either viewing only (ac-cess CDS) or requesting/downloading data between domains (transfer CDS), and the distinction is critical for security [111]. 

C.2 Transfer 

Transfer Cross-Domain Solutions (CDS) support secure data exchange between domains by allowing information to be moved or copied across environments with different trust levels. They are generally classified as either unidirectional or bidirectional [111]. In a unidirectional solution, data flows in only one di-rection. A common example is a data diode, which ensures information can travel from machine A to machine B, but never in reverse [111]. Bidirectional solutions, on the other hand, allow informa-tion to flow both ways, making real-time interaction possible. Guards are an example of this type; they control the exchange of data between machine A and machine B based on prede-fined rules, enabling interactive communication (such as a Zoom call) while filtering which information is permitted and which is blocked [111]. 

C.3 Multi-Level Security (MLS) 

Multi-Level Security (MLS) refers to systems that tag both users (subjects) and data (objects) with security labels and apply mandatory security rules, such as those from the Biba Data Integrity model. Using Mandatory Access Control (MAC) and labelling, MLS systems ensure that only appropriately cleared users can access certain information. For example, in an environment with top-secret, secret, and unclassified levels, a user with secret clearance may view secret and unclassified data but cannot access top-secret material, while someone with top-secret clearance can access information at all three levels [111]. 

C.4 Comparison with Other Security Tools 

Unlike conventional firewalls that filter traffic based on IP ad-dresses, ports, or basic protocol rules, CDS perform deep, content-level inspection of all data transfers. While next-generation firewalls add features such as application awareness and limited content analysis, CDS go much further by exam-ining data at the bit level, validating file structures, detecting hidden content, and enforcing granular rules based on data classification and content type [6]. Although data diodes are sometimes compared to CDS, their functionality is limited to one-way data transmission, ensuring information only moves in a single direction to pre-vent leakage. In contrast, CDS enable secure, bidirectional communication through advanced controls, allowing two-way workflows without compromising strict security boundaries, a key advantage in complex operational environments [6]. Virtual Private Networks (VPNs) provide encrypted chan-nels for secure data transit but do not validate content or enforce security policies tied to data sensitivity. Consequently, while VPNs protect data integrity during transmission, they are inadequate for connecting domains with differing security classifications or preventing unauthorized data sharing [6]. Another defining feature of CDS is their adherence to for-mal certification, assessment, and accreditation requirements, which vary across national security frameworks. In the United States, CDS products are subject to requirements established by the National Cross Domain Strategy and Management Of-fice (NCDSMO), including the evolving Raise the Bar (RTB) initiative, which promotes stronger security measures such as hardware-enforced security and advanced content filtering. These requirements are intended to increase the level of assur-ance provided by CDS when protecting classified and mission-critical systems. Other nations apply their own standards and regulatory frameworks. For example, in Australia, the Australian Signals Directorate (ASD) provides cross-domain security guidance through the Information Security Manual (ISM), which emphasises appropriate security-enforcing mech-anisms, secure architecture and design, and high-assurance components for CDS implementations. [6] 

D Separation Kernels 

The separation kernel concept, introduced by Rushby in 1981 [102], serves to separate kernel verification from the validation of trusted code across distinct components. Its primary goal is to enforce the segmentation of software components while minimizing the Trusted Computing Base (TCB). Security is achieved through both the physical separation of system com-ponents and trusted functionalities within these components. This concept laid the foundation for the Multiple Indepen-dent Levels of Security/Safety (MILS), as described by Jim et al. in 2006 [4], which emphasizes separation and controlled information flow. A separation kernel is a small, highly secure, and verifi-able type of bare-metal hypervisor or microkernel designed 24 Quang Cao 1 et al. to enforce strict isolation between different software compo-nents (partitions) running on the same physical hardware. Its primary function is to create an environment that acts as if each partition is a separate, physically isolated machine, with strictly controlled information flow between them [132]. Initially applied in the avionics sector with Integrated Modular Avionics (IMA) in the 1990s [98], separation kernels function as partitioning kernels, focusing primarily on safety concerns. Their limited size allows for formal verification, facilitating thorough correctness assessments. The success of formal methods in both academic research and industrial applications is increasingly evident, as noted by Woodcock et al. in 2009 [124]. Certified security is typically achieved through Common Criteria (CC) evaluation, mandated by the National Security Agency, which involves formal methods for high-assurance levels, comprehensive security analysis, and formal proofs of model correspondence. The Separation Kernel Protection Profile (SKPP), established by the National Security Agency in 2007, specifically addresses the certification of separation kernels, while safety regulations are governed by RTCA DO-178B [58] and its 2011 successor, DO-178C [101], which includes a formal methods supplement. 

D.1 Multiple Independent Levels of Security (MILS) 

The separation kernel serves as the foundational layer of a Multiple Independent Levels of Security (MILS) architecture. Its role is to provide a trusted execution environment with minimal, formally verifiable code that enforces strict security policies [133]. The security requirements for MILS encompass four foun-dational properties: 

– Data Separation : Each partition functions as a distinct resource. Applications within one partition are unable to modify the applications or private data of other partitions, nor can they command the private devices or actuators associated with those partitions. This property is also referred to as “Data Isolation.” 

– Information Flow Security : Information exchanged between partitions must originate from an authenticated source and be directed to authenticated recipients. The source must be verifiable to the recipients. This is known as “Control of Information Flow.” 

– Temporal Separation : This property enables different components to utilize the same physical resource at differ-ent time intervals. A resource is allocated to one compo-nent for a designated period, thoroughly cleared, and then reallocated to another component. The services accessed from shared resources by applications in one partition cannot be impacted by those in other partitions. This concept is also known as “Periods Processing.” 

– Fault Isolation : This property limits damage by ensuring that a failure in one partition does not propagate to other partitions. NEAT refers to the well-known properties associated with separation kernels. The acronym NEAT stands for Non-bypassable, Evaluatable, Always-invoked, and Tamper-proof: 

– Non-bypassable : Security functions must be inviolable, meaning that components cannot utilize alternative com-munication paths, including lower-level mechanisms, to circumvent the security monitor. 

– Evaluatable : Security functions should be sufficiently small and simple to allow for rigorous correctness proofs through mathematical verification. This requires compo-nents to be modular, well-designed, well-specified, well-implemented, small, and of low complexity. 

– Always-invoked : Security functions must always be op-erational. This means each access or message is subjected to scrutiny by relevant security monitors, ensuring that checks are conducted not only at the initial access but also for all subsequent interactions. 

– Tamper-proof : The system must control modification rights pertaining to the security monitor’s code, configu-ration, and data. This protection prevents unauthorized alterations, whether arising from subversive actions or poorly written code. While these concepts may seem intuitive, formalizing and proving them can be challenging. Separation kernels are typ-ically verified by demonstrating properties related to data separation, temporal separation, information flow security, and fault isolation. 

E Selected Papers 

E.1 Software-Defined Networking (SDN), Network Function Virtualization (NFV), and Network Slicing 

This section consolidates research on programmable network architectures, including SDN controllers, NFV frameworks, virtual network function (VNF) embedding, network slicing, slice security, and emerging 5G/6G infrastructures for mission-critical and next-generation communication systems. 1. A Comprehensive Study on 5G: RAN Architecture, En-abling Technologies, Challenges, and Deployment [3] 2. A Survey on Requirements of Future Intelligent Networks: Solutions and Future Research Directions [51] 3. Mission Critical Communications Support With 5G and Network Slicing [15] 4. Towards 6G wireless communication networks: vision, en-abling technologies, and new paradigm shifts [127] 5. A comprehensive survey on SDN security: threats, mitiga-tions, and future directions [76] 6. A Systematic Review of Quality of Services (QoS) in Software Defined Networking (SDN) [63] 7. Converged Wireless Access/Optical Metro Networks in Support of Cloud and Mobile Cloud Services Deploying SDN Principles [115] 8. Experimental demonstration of software-defined optical network for heterogeneous packet and optical networks [134] 9. Integrated NFV/SDN Architectures: A Systematic Litera-ture Review [12] 10. Novel architectures and security solutions of programmable software-defined networking: a comprehensive survey [122] 11. Performance analysis for a service delivery platform in software defined network [35] 12. Programmable, Controllable Networks [9] 13. SDN Data Plane Optimization [96] 14. SDNSOC: Object Oriented SDN Framework [26] 15. Security Issues in Programmable Routers for Future In-ternet [17] 16. The network OS: Carrier-grade SDN control of multi-domain, multi-layer networks [113] SoK: Secure Software-Based Multi-Domain Data Segregation 25 17. A comprehensive survey on software-defined wide area network (SD-WAN): principles, opportunities and future challenges [92] 18. A survey on software defined networking and its applica-tions [44] 19. A Survey on Software Defined Networking: Architecture for Next Generation Network [109] 20. Design of General SDN Controller System Framework for Multi-domain Heterogeneous Networks [71] 21. A Survey of Network Virtualization Techniques for Inter-net of Things Using SDN and NFV [2] 22. Network Slicing and Management [126] 23. A survey of VNF forwarding graph embedding in B5G/6G networks [128] 24. Experimental validation of resource allocation in transport network slicing using the ADRENALINE testbed [117] 25. Dynamic network slicing management of multimedia sce-narios for future remote healthcare [21] 26. A Trusted Remote Data Trading Scheme in Hybrid SDN for Intelligent Internet of Things [131] 27. CERBERUS: Towards Secure and Automated Multi-operator Management in B5G Through a Dynamic Policy-Based ZSM Framework [19] 28. Hash Flow: An Access Control Mechanism for Software Defined Network [22] 29. Network Slicing Security Controls and Assurance for Ver-ticals [123] 30. Policy based network management in high assurance envi-ronments [120] 31. SDN Based Network Management and Security in 6G Networks [84] 32. SDN-based security management of multiple WoT Smart Spaces [36] 33. SDN Enabled QoE and Security Framework for Multime-dia Applications in 5G Networks [67] 34. Software-Defined Mobile Networks Security [24] 35. Specification of a Policy Based Network Management ar-chitecture [10] 36. Survey on Joint Paradigm of 5G and SDN Emerging Mobile Technologies: Architecture, Security, Challenges and Research Directions [61] 37. Towards constructive approach to end-to-end slice isolation in 5G networks [66] 38. Mission critical communications support with 5G and network slicing [14] 39. Software-Defined Multi-domain Tactical Networks: Foun-dations and Future Directions [75] 40. Surveying emerging network approaches for military com-mand and control systems [43] 

E.2 Cross-Domain, Multi-Domain, and Heterogeneous 

This section consolidates research addressing interoperability and coordination across separate administrative and security domains (cross-domain), joint operations spanning multiple operational or network domains (multi-domain), and integra-tion across diverse technologies and platforms (heterogeneous environments). These works collectively explore routing, au-thentication, access control, resilience, guard mechanisms, and inter-domain key management in complex distributed systems. 1. CrowdRouting: Trustworthy and customized cross-domain routing based on crowdsourcing [129] 2. XAuth: Secure and Privacy-Preserving Cross-Domain Han-dover Authentication for 5G HetNets [121] 3. Use of cross domain guards for CoNSIS network manage-ment [110] 4. A lightweight and secure online cross-domain authentica-tion scheme for VANET systems in Industrial IoT [64] 5. An Access Control Scheme for Multi-agent Systems over Multi-Domain Environments [78] 6. A games-in-games approach to mosaic command and con-trol design of dynamic network-of-networks for secure and resilient multi-domain operations [23] 7. Decision-Dominant Strategic Defense Against Lateral Move-ment for 5G Zero-Trust Multi-Domain Networks [70] 8. PECHA: Privacy-Preserving and Efficient Cross-Domain Handover Authentication for Heterogeneous Networks [72] 9. Secret key rate-adaptive inter-domain key service pro-visioning in heterogeneous protocol-based multi-domain quantum networks [25] 10. Satellite Networking in the Context of Green, Flexible and Programmable Networks [31] 11. Cyber Progression of the Domains of Warfare [86] 

E.3 Command, Control, and Military Systems 

This section consolidates research on Command and Con-trol (C2) and Command, Control, Communications, Comput-ers, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (C4ISR) systems, focusing on architectures, interoperability, secure communications, cyber defense, and modernized military net-work infrastructures. These works collectively address system-of-systems design, tactical networking, multi-domain secu-rity, and cloud/edge-enabled military operations that support mission-critical decision-making and coordinated defense ac-tivities. 1. Methodology for Collecting and Analyzing User Require-ments: Mission-Oriented Analysis [83] 2. Surveying Emerging Network Approaches for Military Command and Control Systems [73] 3. Unified CAMELOT Interoperability Adapters for Existing Unmanned Command and Control Systems [119] 4. A Review on C3I Systems’ Security: Vulnerabilities, At-tacks, and Countermeasures [1] 5. An applied model for secure information release between federated military and non-military networks [34] 6. Improving Security in Coalition Tactical Environments Using an SDN Approach [80] 7. Military Computing Security: Insights and Implications [104] 8. Multi-security domain management integration architec-ture for end-to-end service management in military net-works [114] 9. Research on the Middle Platform Service System of Bat-tlefield Data Governance Information based on 5G Tech-nology [91] 10. SDN Supported Network State Aware Command and Control Application Framework [108] 11. Secure Multi-Domain Information Sharing in Tactical Net-works [95] 12. Sustainment of Military Operations by 5G and Cloud / Edge Technologies [103] 13. Towards Data-Centric Security for NATO Operations [125] 14. Software-Defined Multi-domain Tactical Networks: Foun-dations and Future Directions [75] 15. The Cloud Continuum for Military Deployable Networks: Challenges and Opportunities [100] 16. Distributed MILS: A novel approach to advanced ATM communication services [60] 26 Quang Cao 1 et al. 

E.4 Cybersecurity, Threat Detection, and Policy 

This section examines foundational and advanced topics in cybersecurity, highlighting mechanisms for secure communi-cation, identity and access management, multilevel security architectures, and the formal assurance processes required to certify high-assurance systems. It also includes specialised cryptographic techniques and frameworks that support ro-bust security policy enforcement across diverse operational environments. 1. A Multi-protocol Authentication Shibboleth Framework and Implementation for Identity Federation [69] 2. Attaining Precedence-Based Communications in Secure IP Networks [45] 3. How to Construct Formal Arguments that Persuade Cer-tifiers [82] 4. Implementation of Multi-level Network Security Manage-ment System based Middleware Strategy [135] 5. Speech cryptography algorithms: utilizing frequency and time domain techniques merging [39] 

E.5 Secure IoT Architecture and Policy Control 

This section brings together research that advances secure communication architectures, robust identity and access man-agement frameworks, and practical methods for enforcing and validating security policies. The selected works explore federated authentication protocols, precedence-based commu-nication in protected IP networks, formal assurance techniques for certifiers, multi-level network security management, secure speech processing, and high-assurance communication mod-els. Collectively, these papers highlight emerging strategies for strengthening trust, control, and resilience across modern distributed systems. 1. Enabling Device Trustworthiness for SDN-Enabled Internet-of-Battlefield Things [99] 2. SDN-based security management of multiple WoT Smart Spaces [36] 3. A controller-based roadside unit plane architecture for software-defined internet of vehicles [77] 4. Edge computing in SDN-IoT networks: a systematic review of issues, challenges and solutions [57] 5. Toward a Robust WAN-Scale IoT-Fog Networks: A Dis-tributed SDN Security Architecture Encompassing Moni-toring, Scalability, Reliability, and Security [33] 

E.6 Foundational Security and Assurance 

This section covers general frameworks, security models, and system assurance methods applicable across networks, soft-ware, and operational domains. 1. A Review of Policy-Based Resource and Admission Con-trol Functions in Evolving Access and Next Generation Networks [38] 2. Lightweight Capability Domains: Towards Decomposing the Linux Kernel [54] 3. How to Test Interoperability of Different Implementations of a Complex Military Standard [107] 4. Research on Verification and Validation of Operational Software Program Models [130]